Our
markets are the envy of the world.
>> You do need tech to keep delivering.
Luckily for us, they have been
delivering.
>> You've got, I think, a little bit of
froth showing up.
>> New stocks are back. Cryptos rallying.
That's what I'm worried about.
>> There's going to be continued
volatility. Use it as an opportunity to
buy the dip.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Big tech leading yet again
on the heels of AI's astonishing impact
with a busy day of earnings ahead.
Meanwhile, bond traders boosting bets
for a September rate cut as San
Francisco Fed President Mary Deli says
she can't wait forever. And trade
tensions swirling as the focus turns to
India and where it buys its oil. Perhaps
there's still capacity for the trade
story to invade markets. But right now,
Anmie markets are moving on. They're
moving on. We are just shy from record
highs once again. The president touting
this last night on Truth Social about
the rebound we've seen in the stock
market. And all of this has to do with
what you outlined, the impact of AI.
Look at what happened with Palanteer.
The fact that the markets are just
brushing off the labor market or taking
in stride because this means potentially
there's a 90% chance they're going to
cut in September. What I would warn is
that we are less than 48 hours from
these tariffs to actually take effect
because we do have the instructions now
from um the Border Patrol about how they
are actually going to start to
incorporate these new tariff rates and
there's some loose ends when it comes to
some countries. What I would just say is
that when it comes to trade and tariffs,
the president likes to use this as a
tool in his toolbox for other measures
as well. And this trade story will stay
with us the entire four years, so three
and a half more years.
>> Yeah. And it's going to create a level
of uncertainty. We are seeing that in
some earnings with ranges that are
pretty wide in terms of earnings. Yet, a
lot of the research really just points
to the fact that we've seen a massive
earnings revision higher when it comes
to forecasts. And frankly, as you
mentioned, the AI promise seems to
overwhelm all concerns about policy and
that does seem to be the presiding
sentiment.
>> Exactly. We're going to have Dave Dan
Ives on who's going to talk about the
messy of AI revolution. Palanteer
hitting its next stage. Sound just like
him.
>> Next stage of growth. But when Palanteer
talks about what is the next stage of
growth, they're looking at more
earnings. A lot of this coming from
things like government contracts and
policy out of Washington DC. And key to
that is that they need less people to do
it. And this really is going to be the
key question. How much and how long can
earnings continue to drive given the
fact that there's some real concerns
about the economy? We were talking this
morning, we still can't get over Friday.
I know it's Tuesday, but we still can't
get over Friday and how much of a
blockbuster day it was. Not only did we
get the labor market report, we got the
BLS revisions that caused a firing to
the head and then you had of course this
expectation that the Fed would cut
rates. When you put it together, what is
your takeaway in terms of what you are
watching this week from a response from
Washington DC? Who replaces the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, what the ultimate
goal is and how do you just position
this as not just shooting the messenger?
>> Well, two things. One, the president
said we were going to get new names this
week. Well, we haven't gotten them yet.
that we should get a new name of who's
going to be the new BLS commissioner and
also who is going to fill Cougler's
seat. Now, in both those stories, one
when it comes to labor department data,
does the market take the data as
credible given the fact that this was a
firing? Are they going to view this
purely as political? And then when it
comes to the Fed, is the cougar seat, as
Terry Hansen pen policy said yesterday,
now just a regular governor seat or to
take on a whole new meeting what he
thinks because obviously they are
looking for who is going to be the next
vet chair. When you put all this
together, all I know is that yesterday,
Nvidia, Microsoft, and Meta all closed
at record highs. And what you're seeing
right now is markets pushing, adding to
gains after yesterday's blockbuster day
of returns given the fact that it was
the biggest single trading session since
last May. We see that with a lift coming
from the Russell 2000 in particular, up
310 of a percent, NASDAQ up 210 of a
percent with this expectation that the
Fed is going to cut rates. On the agenda
today, we're looking at uh the trade
balance at 8:30 a.m. ISM services data
at 10 a.m. And watch this space. A slate
of auctions coming out starting with a
58 billion of three-year notes. Uh it is
going to be the busiest week of auctions
going back to May as the United States
does continue to refinance itself. And
don't miss the AMD earnings after the
bell as we continue with the earnings
train. Coming up this hour, Jack Haffrey
of JP Morgan with stocks climbing. Rob
Casey of Signnum with President Trump
threatening higher tariffs on India and
Lauren Goodwin of New York Life warning
that the Fed's cutting cycle might not
be straightforward. We begin this hour
with stocks rising after having their
best day since May on solid corporate
earnings and a renewed rate cut uh bet.
And meanwhile, Jack Cafrey of JP Morgan
writing with the weakness we have gone
from a market with distinct cyclical and
secular underpinning bias to a more
unique setup. Jack joins us now. Jack,
the unique setup has a lot to do with AI
and the fact that that seems to
overwhelm all concerns. Is that how you
see it?
>> Certainly, when you look through the
market continues to be dominated by the
magnificent 7 and then to a much lesser
extent, the forgotten 493. Um and and as
we've worked our way through earning
season, to some extent, your biggest and
best news has been less about the
earnings and more about the capital
spending boosts that so many of these
companies have been talking about in
order to try to make AI the reality and
then ultimately turning to how do we
start incorporating how AI is actually
improving the quality of our business.
>> So go ahead, go ahead. that remains sort
of, if you will, the trillion dollar
question in the markets of how this
spending will ultimately turn into
higher margins, better growth rates, um,
and ultimately returns to shareholders.
>> We knew this though on Friday. We knew
this on Thursday. Suddenly on Monday,
yesterday, there was a renewed sense of
vigor and excitement. How much of this
is coming from the expectation of rate
cut bets and hopes that maybe the
economic data wasn't as bad as it
looked? Well, I think ultimately in a
world of the earnings are in the future,
the fact that you can start trying to
come up with a scenario of lowering
discount rates for those future earnings
makes them somewhat more valuable. Um,
why that all happened yesterday morning,
I wish I could come up with a better
answer than it was Monday. Um, and maybe
there was a merger and someone had a
really good bit of earnings news for
animal health early in the morning and
saw their stock up 30%. say we should
buy AI in response you know daytoday
trying to figure out why markets moved
is is challenging even after 30 plus
years of trying to do this talk about 18
12 18 24 months I think I have a better
sense of what's going to be driving
things um and that'll come back to the
earning story has gotten better you two
weeks ago I would have told you we're
expecting earnings growth of 5% this
year and now it looks like it's going to
be closer to seven seven turns to 12
next year and it's August and I start
turning not only to what you've done for
me recently, but what can you do for me
next year? And I think getting to this
idea of trying to find their way to
policy clarity becomes really important.
You know, all right, we've gone from a
massive cone of uncertainty for tariffs.
Now we have a much better sense of what
they look like for majoring trading
partners. We have tax sense clarity on
what taxes look like, where can I spend,
how I benefit from that. Um, and so I
think ultimately companies will do the
right thing. They're really good at at
managing their margins over the long
term. Um, and I think that sets us up
for where people are starting to look
for where's the good news coming from
next.
>> When it comes to policy, we have an
outline of what the policy is, but now
it's going to take effect. Last year,
this time last year, we had a tariff
rate of 2.5% on average. Now, it's going
to be about 20%. How is that going to
hit the earnings and the companies
you're watching, especially the 493, not
the seven in the S&P 500? Well, I I
think let's start with the US economy is
really a consumption economy and so
ultimately we have to figure out how
much of that tariff boost that 20% is
shared between the consumer companies
reducing their margins or whether
exporters actually decide you know what
I'm going to give the US a discount. Um
and I do think that we have ongoing
academic debate on whether tariffs are
one and done from an inflation
perspective. the fact that as you
pointed out five minutes ago that what
we think is certainty is actually not
certainty because this this hammer in
the toolbox seems to be deployed
frequently and so will you have
consistent impacts on inflation rates
coming through the variability of policy
um you know and that's where I think
today's data should really you know my
issue is what does the ISM services come
back to because again this is this
consumer-led economy tariffs ultimately
if you thought that they were designed
to try to encourage re-industrial
reindustrialization of the United
States. Policy which is both desired by
Democrats and Republicans, you know,
runs into we already have 600,000 empty
manufacturing jobs trying to hire. How
do you actually convince people to take
those jobs without paying them more? And
last time I checked, that was a
potential supply shock to inflation.
>> You said you're looking forward to the
data that comes out today. Where do you
where where are you thinking in terms of
the credibility of this data given the
fact that the president last week didn't
like the jobs number and then fired the
head of the BLS?
>> You know, I think US economic data is
the envy of the world in general, but we
do know that there are some issues.
You've can been having stories for at
least a year now about falling response
rates and the reality is, you know, we
haven't completely used AI to get all
the economic data in real time. Um
certainly the one thing I have certainty
in in life is economic data will be
revised and when I sit back and think
what we were hearing you know a week and
a half ago at this probably sitting in
this seat someone talking about I'm
seeing real weakness in the goods
producing sector of the economy and yet
then when we got the data on Friday the
weakness was actually the revisions and
that weakness in the revisions was
primarily in government. So to some
extent we knew when you've been talking
about the scale of job reductions in the
federal government at some point that
was going to work its way into either
initial claims it would work its way
into job elimination. So you're left
with we didn't know timing but we knew
that was a we knew that was something
that was going to work its way into the
system. Unfortunately it managed to work
its way into the system the same day
that the actual job creation number was
on the weaker side. Um, I'm not sure
that eliminating a job because you don't
like the answer, it feels kind of very
ancient Roman. Um, in terms of of how
you respond.
>> Sure. At the same time, some people are
saying this actually gives the Fed,
actually most people are saying this
gives the Fed a lot of ammunition to cut
rates and you're seeing a 91% chance
priced into Fed funds futures. How much
do you see this really mandating a cut
in September and mandating at least two
cuts this year and that actually being a
positive for equities given the fact
that the underlying weakness might not
be as great as maybe the revisions might
suggest.
>> I mean consensus has been I think for
two cuts this year. The question was
really was it going to be July? Was it
going to be August? By the way, Jackson
Hole coming up in a few weeks tends to
have had sort of a an above average
policy impact ever since the global
financial crisis. So I do think that we
certainly have a nice big window um for
the Fed to consider look at the data. Um
I think you know coming back to this
idea of the direction is lower rates. I
think the question is do we get it
quickly or not? If you look at you know
the slope of the yield curve 210
suggests that that is more or less
priced in 3 months 10 years you know
that curve is still inverted. So, I do
think you do wind up looking at the bond
market is is trying, if you will, to
force the Fed's hand. Um, and the Fed is
left with I've got two mandates. I
hadn't seen until Friday the employment
picture actually cracking or weakening.
Um, and I've got inflation that's still
running 28, 27, 29, depending on which
survey you look at, still comfortably
above two.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, lies, damn lies, and
statistitians. Is that 40% above trend
or 80 basis points? You know,
>> yeah,
>> depending on which channel you listen
to, you get a different take on it.
>> Jack Caffrey of JP Morgan Asset
Management, thank you so much for
joining us this morning. And we are
hearing from Fed officials, in
particular, San Francisco Fed uh
President Mary Dailyaly, who said this
yesterday. I was willing to wait another
cycle, but I can't wait forever. And
basically her point is that we it sounds
like she's thinking we should cut. She's
been nervous about the labor market. and
then if they do see the impact of the
tariffs on inflation be more than just a
one-time price adjustment then they can
adjust themselves. She also went on to
say which I thought was interesting. I
think the more likely thing is that we
might have to do more than two. We also
should be prepared in my judgment to do
more if the labor market looks we
entering that period of weakness and we
still haven't seen spillovers in
inflation. Sounds like she's prepared to
join Waller and Bowman in September and
we might be getting more than two rate
cuts right now. Now, we'll be speaking
about that coming up. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here is your Bloomberg brief with Yahira
Anihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. We start with Palunteer.
Shares are surging in the pre-market, up
5.4% after reporting a 48% increase in
revenue to more than 1 billion. The
company citing the astonishing impact of
AI on its business in the second
quarter, leading it to raise its fullear
outlook to over $4.1 billion, far beyond
analyst expectations of 3.9 billion. The
stock is on track to hit an all-time
high at the open. Meanwhile, Texas
Governor Greg Abbott has ordered the
arrest of Democratic lawmakers who left
the state to block a vote on new
congressional maps. Abbott saying the
lawmakers abandoned their duty to Texans
and that they could potentially face
forfeite of their elected office. The
tensions now have governors of other
states looking to redraw maps in their
states. And Saudi Arabia's Aramco
reported a drop in profits for a 10th
straight quarter as lower oil prices hit
the company despite its increase in
production. Earlier this year, Aramco
said it would lower its dividend for
2025 by a third to about $85 billion,
but it's still struggling to turn out
enough cash to cover the distribution.
Shares are slightly higher. That's very
brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Up next, the
president's push to open markets.
All of the deals are premised and the
and the modified rates for these
countries are premised on them actually
opening their market. If you don't, you
can have the tariffs go back into place.
This is b this is basic trade
enforcement. That's what we intend to do
here
>> and we will be discussing that coming up
next with Rob Casey of Signn Global
Adviserss. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
We're seeing a little bit of a lift
after yesterday's blowout earnings as
well as the blowout returns on the S&P
500. The biggest one day gain across the
board going back to May driven by big
tech building on that with two ten of a
percent gain. A little bit of dollar
strength after yesterday. uh seeing that
come off just a touch and 10-year yields
up two basis points ahead of a slate of
auctions under surveillance this morning
the president's push to open markets
all of the deals are premised and the
and the modified rates for these
countries are premised on them actually
opening their market making the
investment and purchase commitments
they've agreed to and if you don't you
can have the tariffs go back into place
this is b this is basic trade
enforcement that's what we intend to do
here this is once in a 100 years that
you have the chance to reorder global
trade like this and we're doing it and
we'll use whatever tools are necessary
to do it.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
vowing to quote substantially raise
tariffs on India over the country's
Russian oil purchases. India's Ministry
of External Affairs calling the move
quote unjustified and unreasonable.
Bloomberg's Mike Shepard joins us now
and we talk about opening markets. What
do open markets under uh President
Trump's rule look like?
Well, open markets under President
Donald Trump really look more like what
Jameson Greer, the US trade
representative, was just outlining in
that interview clip we saw. It is really
not just about lowering those uh tariff
and non-tariff barriers. And that is one
of the key issues at stake with India.
India besides the whole question of
Russian oil purchases uh has in place
some of the highest tariffs on US
products and that has been a sore spot
for the Trump administration as well as
other non-tariff barriers on goods uh
especially agricultural products. So the
administration expects a a lowering of
those impediments to trade for US goods,
but it also expects as we've seen from
other major economies including Japan,
South Korea, and the European Union,
some pledge to invest here in the US
domestically. And while those promises
from other trading partners are a little
vague in terms of what those uh billions
and billions of dollars in investment in
the US would look like, would it be
through through a sovereign wealth fund?
What exactly what form would the
investments take? Would it be in energy?
Would it be in tech? A lot of those
questions remain unanswered. But the
administration at the very least Lisa
wants to see some sort of pledge in that
direction as well. Now with India, there
is the additional sore spot of its
purchases of Russian crude. And this has
really gotten under President Donald
Trump's skin because it is in his view
an impediment to ending the war in
Ukraine. Uh this is a promise that he
had made and he had tried to curry favor
with Vladimir Putin to get both sides to
the bargaining table. But now he has
soured his tone toward the Russian
president and he is taking it out as
well on Russian trading partners
especially India when it comes to those
purchases of crude. Now for India they
are looking at ways to maybe get out of
this pickle and that could include more
purchases of US energy products. Um but
it also will rely more on some personal
diplomacy. Uh Indian president Prime
Minister Narendra Modi had enjoyed a
more chummy relationship during the
president, President Donald Trump's
first term, but we have seen that
bromance fade and we have seen since
then that uh Modi has turned to his own
populace in the last week or so saying
look buy Indian products, buy local and
he is really trying to stand his ground
against the US and that is a stance that
we're also seeing echoed in another
BRICS country and that is Brazil where
another eyewatering level of tariffs of
50% in a separate dispute between
Washington and Brasilia. We're also
seeing tariffs emerge as an instrument
of policy there too. Lisa
>> Mike Shepard of Bloomberg. Thank you so
much. Always great reporting. Joining us
now is Rob Casey of Signnum Global
Adviserss. We just heard Shep lay out
all of the potential tariff uncertainty
as well as tariff squamishes, squibbles,
quablebles uh that we've been hearing
about and yet markets are pushing toward
record highs. Why are markets so sanguin
about all of these risks?
>> Well, I think the the truth of the
matter is that since liberation day, we
haven't had the kind, you know, one big
beautiful gasp of of markets, right?
It's it's we haven't had that real shock
factor. Um, and I think you have to give
President Trump some some credit for
this. He's continued to socialize
relatively high levels of tariffs, not
over the past couple of weeks or months,
but over the past number of years,
right? And so I think markets are able
to see through some of the day-to-day
announcements because we've been having
day-to-day announcements for months now.
>> So is Thursday an actual deadline?
>> I I I wouldn't say that President Trump
has any actual deadlines, right? I I do
think that he likes to maintain his um
his ability to maneuver, right? I think
that that's part of President Trump's
ability to maintain leverage. Um so is
Thursday a a drop dead, you know, as of
Friday morning? We we're in a brave new
world and and everybody knows exactly
what's going to happen from there. I
don't think so. I do think Thursdays is
a point is at which you know kind of as
we've seen over the past number of weeks
we get a little bit more information a
little bit more information maybe one or
two more deals and even though those
deals are vague right we're getting to a
place where okay there aren't so many
outstanding variables
>> so sheep outlined all the concerns and
problems right now in the relationship
with Delhi and Washington do you think
that India is able to get a deal with
this administration it seems like a
massive Uturn from where they started in
the beginning with MOT
coming to the United States and then
preparing to be one of the first to ink
a deal.
>> Yeah, we've always felt that you know
the US India trade deal as as difficult
as the details may be and and all these
deals right have plenty of details. It
was as simple as the fact that President
Trump and Modi have a good relationship.
They both want to get this deal done and
so they both will, right? It's very much
a a top-down negotiation process rather
than maybe a a more bottomup negotiation
process. Allah US and EU. I I take
Chev's point that the relationship is
not as positive as it has been, but we
still think that there is, you know,
kind of residual positive vibes and and
the fact that there is still um let's
say some wiggle room or some middle
ground, right? We may see more US
agricultural exports to India. That's a
relatively obvious carrot that Modi can
still give President Trump to get a deal
done.
>> What happened with Switzerland? They got
a 39% tariff rate. Now we're getting
reports from the Swiss government after
saying, "We can offer a better deal for
you that a Swiss leader is going to
Washington DC to discuss the tariffs.
What happened there? And what exactly is
this president looking for?"
>> Well, I think we heard it on the show
yesterday from Ambassador Greer. They
are still willing to talk, right? If a
country is unhappy with the deal that
they got and they want to, you know,
ring the USR, if they they want to ring
President Trump, then the Trump
administration will listen, right? So, I
think in Switzerland's case, uh,
rightfully so, they were unhappy with
the deal that they got. I think they
they will continue to negotiate, which,
I mean, leads us back to the fact that
there are no deadlines, right? Because
even a a hawkish tariff rate that's put
in place can still be negotiated down.
>> Let's be really clear, it's bringing in
a lot of revenue. A lot of people are
talking about just how many billions of
dollars these tariffs are bringing in.
Some people equivalating them um
creating some sort of equivalency with
the VAT tax and saying essentially
they're going to be really hard to
remove post Trump just simply because
who's going to want to do that and then
raise taxes on the other side? Do you
see this as a permanent structure for
the United States going forward?
>> Well, I think we're we're getting there,
right? Because the truth of the matter
is these things are going to be
relatively hard to unwind for the next
president. That being said, if the next
president is, you know, JD Vance, I I
think we would see uh a doubling down on
on these ideas, right? Kind of generally
speaking, this ideology. If the next
president is a Democrat, then I don't
think it's that difficult to say we want
to lower prices. We're going to bring
down tariffs, right? And and maybe we'll
find revenue elsewhere. You know, maybe
we'll tax the rich. We haven't seen
Republicans or Democrats really make
that happen so far. Three years from
now, we we'll have a conversation.
>> But Biden had a chance to do that when
it comes to the Chinese tariffs when
inflation was skyhigh and they were
trying to pull any lever to bl bring
bring inflation down. They talked about
it oo for about seven months until the
decision was we're going to keep the
Trump tariffs on.
>> Yeah, I think that that's a really good
counter example. It's a lot easier to be
hawkish on China than it is to say be
hawkish on Switzerland, right? So I
think that there is there there's
political space to maybe remove a tariff
on Switzerland where there isn't
political space to remove a tariff on on
China. Um maybe political space to
remove some of the tariffs on on
Southeast Asia. Right. So Amry, I
totally take your point. Some of these
are going to stick, right? And and
that's President Trump's intention, but
if we have a Democrat in in the White
House, I don't think they'll all stick.
>> I think you're underestimating the anger
against Switzerland and Canada, Rob. I
think you need to rightsize that. Rob
Casey of Signum Global Adviserss. Thank
you. We are hearing uh more that the
Swiss leader is heading to Washington DC
and Murray and that's going to come as
soon as today.
>> This is a big move. This is the
president, the economy minister, the
president of Switzerland and President
Trump had a phone call. It did not go
well. So this is an opportunity for them
to get back to the negotiating table. I
was told there was actually a
negotiating text agreed upon. It just
needed this phone call to get it through
and it didn't go too well. We'll update
you when we get more on that coming up.
Lauren Goodwin of New York Life joining
us next.
[Music]
Building on gains from yesterday after
uh the biggest one-day gain across the
board since May. And yesterday's gain, I
should just say, was completely
broad-based. More than 80% of the S&P
500's members ended the day higher.
Meanwhile, you see that continuing led
by the Russell 2000 possibly on rate cut
bets up about a half a percent. NASDAQ
building 4/10en of a percent and the S&P
up 3/10en of a percent 3 hours from the
cash open with tech leading. Here are
your morning movers with Danny Ber.
Danny,
>> hey Lisa, here's what's behind that tech
lead. It is by far Palunteer this
morning. Reported earnings after the
bell yesterday. Shares are up 5.4%. It
was a 48% increase in revenue to $1
billion. the CEO saying it was because
the astonishing impact of AI. I also
wrote down what he said kind of taking a
jab at Wall Street who's had a lovehate
relationship with the stock saying the
skeptics are admittedly fewer now having
been defanged and bent into submission.
How is that for a CEO statement? Now
elsewhere the chipmakers in focus this
morning. We're going to get earnings
from AMD and Super Micro computer after
the bell, but they are rallying in
advance in that probably thanks to
Infinion. German chipmaker reported
earnings this morning said it sees a
lesser tariff impact than expected and
assumes that their margins will
increase. So now the bar has been been
set high for these chip makers. Finally
rounding it up with a loser, one of the
biggest losers in the S&P 500 pre-market
this morning. That is Vertex
Pharmaceutical. Shares are down 15%.
It's been trying to develop an
experimental pain treatment without the
use of opioids. In a recent study, the
FDA ruling that it was not strong
enough. So that negative study sending
shares lower premarket. Lisa,
>> thank you so much Danny. Right now we're
watching this. President Trump vowing to
quote substantially raise tariffs on
India over the country's Russian oil
purchases. This coming after Trump
announced a 25% levy on the country last
week. One of the highest of any major
economy in an about face after what was
believed to be a pretty positive
relationship. Right? Remember when we
said in April that this is going to be
one of the countries that quickly out of
the gate is going to get a deal
alongside maybe Japan and some others
and actually we've seen the European
Union get a deal before the likes of
India. I think with this the Trump
administration is viewing this killing
two birds with one stone. One they have
issues with India right now to figure
out the final agreement. So they are
trying to put some pressure on New Delhi
for concessions. At the same time, Trump
has another self-imposed deadline for
Moscow and Vladimir Putin this Friday,
saying that Putin needs to come to the
table for a truce and a ceasefire
agreement. He even sent Steve Wickoff
there. He's going to be going there in
the next few days. So, by doing this,
they can also put pressure on India to
stop buying Russian crude. And
yesterday, we had the NATO ambassador
Matt Whitaker on Bloomberg TV talking
about secondary sanctions and tariffs
against those that are paying for this
war, like China, like India, and Brazil.
But it's much easier to put pressure on
your friends like India than it is to
get China to do your bidding.
>> I wonder what it means for the likes of
Apple. We talked about that earlier
about how they were looking to move
production out of China into India. How
do you come up with some sort of
long-term plan around supply chains if
you have this type of shifting sand
backdrop? It's very challenging because
one day the tariffs are on, one day the
tariffs might be off, one day
potentially there's a threat, the next
day potentially there's a deal. Usually
when things and the rhetoric gets very
hot, that actually signals potentially
they're closer to a deal than you would
think, but it's very challenging for a
company to decipher between this,
especially when you're at the moment
somewhat out of favor. I am still struck
by the fact that the president of United
States on the Middle East trip
continuously kept calling out his new
best friend, Jensen Wang, the Nvidia
CEO, and also kept saying, "Who's not
there? His friend Tim Cook didn't decide
to come." Well, we're talking about the
potential uh tech prowess and who gets
what. TSMC discovering a potential trade
secret leak about its chipmaking
techniques. The Nvidia chipmaker
launched an internal investigation as
initiated legal proceedings after
identifying the issue quote early,
raising questions about TSMC's
dominance, and they've only solidified
that dominance over chipmaking over the
past few years. Absolutely. This is the
world's biggest chipmaker. Now, they're
going to be at least looking at this
internal investigation. The concern
always is from a national security
perspective and has been from the United
States when they put on things like
export controls is any of this data, any
of this tech leaking to China? And that
is why this is going to be very
concerning for individuals in
Washington. Meanwhile, we've been
talking about data dependency taking on
a new meaning as we uh look at the
potential downward revisions as well as
some of the changes at the top. San
Francisco Fed President Mary Daly saying
they might need more than two rate cuts
this year. daily citing growing evidence
the job market is softening and saying
there are no signs of tariff driven
inflation. Look to me she's been
actually harping on this for a while. So
this even was before some of the jobs
data but it highlights the concern and
how split the FOMC really is when it
comes to the balance of their mandate. I
think it was David Se of Neora that said
to you and John last week this oneman
rule dictatorship at the Fed is over.
That regime that we've seen for decades
is over. There's going to actually be we
saw the double denters. Now you have
someone like Mary Daly coming out to
your point. She's not running. She's
been in this camp for a very long time,
but there's actually going going to be a
huge date debate at this September
meeting. It's going to be I think one of
the most interesting Fed meetings we
have this entire year. I mean, she might
be running. We don't really know. We'll
find out. But meanwhile, sticking with
the Fed, Lauren Goodwin of New York Life
writing this. We discourage investors
from assuming a September cut would
signal a series of cuts thereafter. Our
Fed cuts checklist still signals risks
from all sides. Lauren joins us now with
what is increasingly out of consensus
view. Lauren, how do you look at what we
got on Friday and the labor market data
as well as the lack of some sort of
sustained inflationary impulse? Put that
together and say we could even be
talking about a rate hike. Yeah. Well,
so I think what the market is telling us
after Friday is that the Fed will be
leaning more towards the demand
destruction we're seeing in the labor
market than inflation in September. And
on balance, I agree. I think that we're
likely to see a rate cut in September
pending the data that we get between now
and then. Where we caution investors is
assuming that a cut in September means
anything about October or December or
meetings thereafter. And the reason for
that is that as we look at the things
that the Fed cares about, the labor
market, we're seeing some weakness on
the demand side, but we're also seeing a
deterioration in labor supply. And this
is something that I think the market
conversation is not paying enough
attention to because that deterioration
in labor market supply might mean that
15 20,000 jobs a month is actually a
healthy labor market. It might mean that
the unemployment rate isn't going
anywhere or that wages are moving
potentially even higher. That's a a
market reaction function that we're not
used to as investors and something that
I think we have to consider as we see
more data between now and September. So,
are you saying that we could still see
one rate cut this year or maybe two, but
nothing more than that? Is your argument
essentially that people are
overestimating any potential weakening
in the labor market that could cortail
the inflationary kind of uh overlays?
That's the that's my view today. Now, if
we think about the things that the Fed
cares about, we've talked a little bit
about the labor market. U inflationary
pressures, I tend to agree with the
market that we're unlikely to see a
major reaceleration of inflation.
Certainly nothing like we saw a couple
of years ago, but we are probably going
to be seeing prices move uh core PCE
inflation move back above 3% over the
next few months. That's a tricky
situation for the Fed. And if you add
that financial market conditions have
been very loose. Equity valuations look
great. Credit spreads are tight. The
availability of credit is good. Chair
Pal pointed to this last week. That's a
a balance of data that doesn't call for
an enormous amount of cuts. Now, I do
think that what we saw on Friday in
terms of the demand side of the labor
market that does concern me. But that
balance of data is not only tricky, but
a lot of the things that are impacting
the data are supply side factors, things
that the Fed can't control. When it
comes to the demand side of the labor
market and the supply side, are you
looking at potentially there's less
participation because of immigration
policy out of Washington or what we're
seeing in terms of the AI revolution?
>> I at this moment it's more related to
immigration policy. So we're seeing and
and this was confirmed in the numbers on
Friday, fewer people participating in
the labor force. Frankly, just less
labor supply, less labor availability.
We're also seeing that companies are
hesitant on hiring and that has more to
do with trade policy and let's call it
general uncertainty. And so that balance
of factors is one where there's not a
lot of new jobs created. That's not the
end of the world. But where I think it's
tricky for the Fed is when you have not
a whole lot of new jobs created while
still having an unemployment rate that
isn't going anywhere. That makes the the
again the reaction function for the
market looking at a a weaker payrolls uh
ga payrolls gain as something that
actually isn't negative. When you say
that in the next few months you see
inflation ticking up. Is it all tariff
induced?
>> It's mostly tariff induced. So we see
some stickiness in the housing market
related to rates. Other than that
services disinflation has been pretty
well pronounced and it's one of the
reasons why we do think that the Fed
will be able to look through some of the
goods related inflation we're seeing and
move towards a cut in September. Um, but
the challenge is that we've only just
started to see that goods related
inflation hasn't included things like
holiday bar uh buying that are just
starting now. And so we do anticipate
that prices are going to be moving in
the wrong direction later this year.
>> It's hard to figure out what's going on.
It's even harder when you've got
accusations of political interference
and you've got questions about just how
accurate uh the data collection is given
the low response rates. You have a
really interesting take on this, Lauren,
that political interference with the Fed
or the Bureau of Labor Statistics will
push long rates higher, not lower. Why
is the market not coming to that
conclusion right now?
>> I my read on this, and I've thought a
lot about this over the weekend, but I
my read on this is that the market isn't
seeing evidence of actual interference
yet. We don't know who's taking stepping
into Fed or BLS seats. we don't have
really in any indication that there is
interference with these important
independent functions. I think that
calculus would change if the market does
see that evidence does see that data or
Fed decision-m is being tampered with.
And the reason that we think that's
important is that especially in monetary
policym credibility is one of the most
important policy tools. And though there
are a increasing amount of evidence that
the Fed could be cutting rates slowly,
stably over the next, let's call it six
to 12 months, some some of the
conversations I have with investors are,
oh, if we have a new Fed share and we
get 200 basis points of cuts, you know,
right away, that type of activity,
though I think incredibly unlikely, is
going to derail inflation expectations.
and in anticipation that there were even
let's call it modest political
interference I think would mean that
market interest rates like the 10-year
yield would be moving higher even if the
policy rate were moving lower. You know,
one thing that a number of analysts have
said is that private data points cannot
replace the gold standard, cannot
replace the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
and even some of the peripheral surveys
don't really uh don't really serve as a
counterpoint for the labor market
report. Given the potential for the
market to not being tracking, not to not
to not be tracking the actual economy in
real time the way they thought, are
there certain gauges that you're
watching for a better sense? Is ISM
services that much more important? Is
CPI what's sort of the gold standard
increasingly for you?
>> I have to say that the labor market
statistics have had trouble now for more
than a year, more than actually more
than a couple of years as response rates
have declined in response to the
pandemic. The BLS is still the gold
standard. Of course, there's a
smattering of of data and um evidence
that we look at regardless of what phase
of the cycle that we're in. But when it
comes to the labor market, it is about
the BLS statistics. Now, what do we do
to acknowledge that revisions are
becoming larger, more likely, etc. Goes
back to essentially economic
fundamentals. One data point does not
make a trend. I think what was really
important about Friday's data point is
that it showed that some of the early
signs of cracks in the labor market
actually did make a trend with the
revisions that we saw.
>> Lauren Goodwin, thank you so much for
being here. Lauren Goodwin of New York
Life. Right now, let's get you as an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your bloomber brief
with Yahira Anihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. Japan's top trade negotiator
is heading to Washington to push for a
cut to tariffs on cars as promised in
its trade deal with the US. Before his
departure, Rio Akazawa told reporters
Japan will quote strongly urge the US to
take steps to implement the agreement
swiftly and steadily. Tariffs on cars
from Japan to the US currently sit at 27
and a half%. Meanwhile, Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu plans to
meet with his security cabinet on a
fresh plan on achieving its Gaza war
objectives of freeing hostages and
destroying Hamas. This comes as Israel
faces increasing international pressure
on its war conduct as the UN and aid
groups warn of widespread starvation in
Gaza.
And the US is exploring ways to equip
chips with better location tracking
capabilities. A senior official sharing
Washington is working with the industry
to monitor the movements of the
sensitive components as part of a
broader plan to curtail smuggling and
protect American tech dominance. That's
your Bloomberg brief. Lisa, thank you so
much. Up next, a big beautiful bond
market.
It's a big beautiful bond market and and
returns have been substantial and
they're going up, right? Yields are
really high and we've been certainly
advising clients, you know, take
advantage of these rates while they're
high.
>> And talking more about that big,
beautiful bond market, Simon Dangor of
Goldman Sachs will be joining us next.
[Music]
tariffs. What tariffs? Right now, we're
seeing further gains after yesterday's
biggest one-day return for the S&P and
NASDAQ going back to May. Building on
that, up a quarter of a percent on the
S&P, 6371. I remember when people were
talking about four handles in front of
the S&P. Meanwhile, a little bit of
dollar strength, 115 on the Euro dollar
cross and yields creeping higher on the
long end, 421%.
Under surveillance this morning,
sticking with bonds, a big, beautiful
bond market.
>> It's a big beautiful bond market and and
returns have been substantial and
they're going up, right? Yields are
really high. And we've been certainly
advising clients, you know, take
advantage of these rates while they're
high. You have a president, a Treasury
Secretary, and ultimately a chair of the
Fed that all think rates should not be
again 25 or 50 basis points lower,
potentially hundreds of basis points
lower.
>> Here's the latest. US Treasury is
holding on to most of their gains from
their best day of the year so far on
Friday as more traders bet on a
September rate cut. The US is auctioning
$125 billion worth of debt in the
biggest week of Treasury note and bond
sales since May. It's one of the thing
that might be tempering the rally that
we saw. Simon Dangore of Goldman Sachs
joining us now. Simon, thank you so much
for being with us. Are we correct in
pricing in just two rate cuts this year
or is the bond market sniffing something
out that there could be some steeper
rate cuts in the future?
>> Hey, good morning. Great to speak with
you today. We we do think actually the
front end of the curve offers some value
here because even though what we got
last Friday uh really wasn't enough in
and of itself to sort of seal the deal
for something like three cuts over the
course of the rest of this year, the
setup is pretty interesting. If we get
another weak report in beginning of
September reflecting August payrolls and
of course these revisions and patterns
that we've been seeing have been sort of
heading in that direction then I think
you can really start to frame the debate
for more and that seems to be something
which is underpriced with the market. I
think the key thing to watch in the next
um unemployment report isn't just going
to be where the sort of headline
payrolls come out but is where
unemployment rate comes out. If you get
a 4.4 for unemployment. Maybe the market
can have a debate about whether 25 or 50
is right at the September meeting.
>> Wait, hold on a second. Simon, you think
that if you do see an unemployment rate
creep higher in the August jobs report,
you could see easily see a 50 basis
point rate cut come September with
enough of the committee signing off. Is
that correct?
>> I I think the market could certainly
debate it. A lot will also depend on
what the inflation picture looks like
between now and then. Um, you know,
clearly what we've seen so far is more
moderate pass through of tariff
inflation. We'll have to see what we get
next week. There is going to be a pick
up from that, but really what matters is
what's going on in the rest of the
inflation basket. Pal was pretty clear
at the press conference last week that
the working model of the Fed here is
that they're going to see this tariff
shock as a one-off price level shock.
So, if the rest of the basket looks more
benign, we've got this weakening labor
market picture. and importantly
unemployment is rising because of course
as one of your earlier speakers talked
about the supply side of the labor
market is in flux as well as demand then
we could certainly see that debate. Now
that's not a central case by any means
but there's an interesting setup in the
market here and that doesn't seem to be
so fully priced by the front end of the
curb. So so we we like we like positions
in twoear notes here.
>> We have one more jobs report due before
the Fed meets and two CPI prints. Simon,
what kind of CPI print could derail this
potential cut in September?
>> Well, I think it's the mix that really
matters here. So, what are we going to
be watching? We're going to be watching
essentially the non-tariff parts of the
of the basket with so services prices is
going to be key. All of the data that we
get over the course of the month as well
about what the intentions of of of of
companies are in terms of in terms of of
pass through are going to be important
to watch too. But I'd really emphasize
that I think this is a labor first Fed.
I think power again I think six times in
the press conference last week. He
talked about um a softening in in the in
the labor market and of course that was
somewhat proved out by the data that we
got on Friday. Um and and so we think
that's the key thing to focus on here
unless we get something really shocking
from the inflation numbers.
>> And the main metric he told us he
watches is that unemployment rate. What
number of unemployment rate would you
need to see for 50 basis points?
Well, I think it's really about
trajectory here and the combination of
the overall picture of what we're seeing
with here. I think at the very least it
would need to be a 4.4. Of course, what
we got last Friday was a 4.2, but only
barely a 4.2. It would take quite a big
move to get all the way to 4.4. But if
we saw that trajectory in the
unemployment rate combined with another
weak number in terms of the non-farm
payrolls that would take the 3-month
average potentially even lower then that
could be the setup um that really gets
the market excited about at least a
debate about whether 50 should be on the
table and perhaps even some votes for
that.
>> It seems like Simon the bonds the bond
market and the stock market are singing
from two different himnels. You have the
bond market pricing in more weakness
ahead and you see it actually
potentially underpricing the scope of
that weakness and the scope of cuts that
could be necessary. Well, we see profits
surging, expectations for profits
surging, free cash flow surging, and
that's what you see reflected in some
new highs in a number of stocks across
the S&P 500 and NASDAQ. Where do these
two stories meet?
Well, I think the S&P 500 isn't the full
economy and obviously the breadth in the
stock market is something which has got
a lot of focus. Um, look, I I think that
the the Fed is in the risk management
game. Um, the market the stock market is
very much trying to look forward to what
are some um potential positive drivers
of the economy into 2026.
Now, if the economy is going to be soft
through the second half of the year, the
Fed's got a role to play in order to
make that bridge and to make sure that
that bridge takes place smoothly. So, I
think there's a lot of uncertainty about
how the economy is going to play out.
The Fed policy, I think the stock market
is taking some credit for that, but the
Fed's got a part to play. And if we do
get that weakening of the labor market,
as I said, that's not a forecast, that's
a scenario. And I think that's of course
what bond markets are focused on, then
then the Fed has its role to play. If
the Fed's in the risk management game,
isn't there a greater risk that they
could preempt any weakness, cut rates,
and lead to more inflation down the
line, leading to a sell-off at the long
end?
There's always that risk, but I think
the starting point for the Fed, and
they've been very consistent about this,
is that they're at a mo moderately
restrictive um level of rates. And so
even those people in the Fed who have a
sort of reasonably high view of neutral
rates here would take the view that we
would be more than 50 basis points
moderately restrictive. I guess the
argument that I would make is that if
we're seeing a weak labor market picture
extend um then then I think the question
in the Fed will be do we still need to
be at moderately restrictive or do we
want to move reasonably quickly to
something which is a neutral um stance.
>> Simon Dangor of Goldman Sachs thank you
so much. pretty bold scenario, not call
but scenario with respect to a potential
50 basis point rate cut in September.
Something that Mary Daly sounded open to
should the labor market data deteriorate
sufficiently. I'm looking at all that
data that comes before the next Fed
meeting next another jobs print two CPI
more important and Jack Cafrey was
talking about this maybe is going to be
and you'll be at it the Jackson Hole
Symposium. We're going to have Jay
Powell talk about it. Does he start to
say yes? Basically, we are seeing enough
weakness in the labor market to me for
leaning in on this cut in September. And
this year's theme is labor markets in
transition, demographics, productivity,
and macroeconomic policy. Yeah, it's
going to be a fascinating meeting at a
time where so many people are saying
that the exodus of foreignb born workers
which some people say have been
overstated in recent data but has been
presumed that that along with artificial
intelligence how that has affected the
labor market. Those things put together
lead to a pretty different set of
circumstances for them to measure. I
just wonder to your point how much the
data that we have from now until
September could determine everything
even though we've seen that revisions
are a constancy. revisions. Exactly.
What did Jack Caffrey say? The only
thing certain I know is that economic
data will be revised and to get to a 4.4
unemployment rate or the trajectory of
that as Simon was just talking about
that might not happen just with one more
payroll report. This is really
complicated which is a reason why AI
profit seems to be uh what people in the
equity market are looking for and
frankly they're seeing and they are
rewarding it. Coming up next, Brook May
of Evans May Wealth, Brian Gardner of
Stiffel, Tom Shapiro of GTIS Partners
and Amanda Linham of Black Rockck as we
do watch uh stocks build on gains from
yesterday futures higher by about a
quarter% on the S&P. This is board park.
[Music]
>> The macro data has been quite resilient.
>> There has been an uncertainty impact in
the economy. Consumers are managing this
I think quite remarkably. There really
aren't signs that the labor market is
weak.
>> But with the revisions, it's a
dramatically different picture to what
the labor market is saying.
>> It's clear that the economy is adjusting
to a period of higher tariffs. Either
the consumer will eat it or corporates
will.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Building on gains after
the biggest one day of returns since
May. Earnings just keep on outperforming
expectations. Next up, AMD after the
bell and the drum beat of tariffs still
there, but no one is listening. Big tech
dominating with traders stick sick of
talking about policy uncertainty. And
Emmery, that seems to be my takeaway is
people cannot price uncertainty. They've
gotten used to it. There is less of it.
So, they are focused on the earnings.
And what we hear from the promise of AI,
promise of AI, all the spending that's
going into it. And that is what they're
looking at right now because the
uncertainty of Washington is here to say
stay. And we see that today in the
market whether or not it's the back and
forth between India and the United
States right now potentially if they can
get a trade agreement potentially if the
president is going to put tariffs on
them higher tariff rates because of
their continuous consumption of Russian
oil. And also Switzerland the Swiss
president is now getting on a plane
today to come to Washington DC to see
counterparts. Not sure if there's a
meeting with the president because they
don't have a deal. In less than 48
hours, they're going to be paying a 39%
or hit with a 39% tariff rate. It's a
debate on who pays what part of the
rate. Yeah. And one reason why people
have moved past it in markets,
particularly in the United States, is
they say this market isn't and the
economy is not driven as much by goods
rather than services. We do get ISM
services data coming up as well as AMD
earnings. These two prongs of both the
consumer able to spend as well as that
tech story have really lifted uh US
equity markets in a massive way. I just
wonder going forward how much that gets
challenged with questions around the
data integrity especially after the
firing of the head of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.
>> And what's so interesting about the
firing of the BLS commissioner is of
course that weak data print is actually
what's also fueling this market. It
means that the the market is saying the
Fed can look at this labor data, see
that there has been weakening, see that
the revisions show that it potentially
is a trend and they could potentially
cut in September. Before the labor data
came out, it was a 40% chance of a
September rate cut. Now it's a 90%
chance. But of course, the president
didn't like the jobs report, fired the
BLS commissioner. a lot of concern from
the likes of even Neil Duta, an
individual that regularly touts a lot of
progress that they he thinks this
administration has made, saying this can
undermine market credibility. Yeah,
people are on hold waiting to see who
they nominate to really replace that
seat. And as Lauren Goodwin was saying,
right now the market is a wait is in a
wait andse mode to really say, okay,
maybe this person could actually
increase the integrity of the data
collection process rather than just uh
putting their thumb on the scale from a
political perspective. In the meantime,
we do have a slew of bond auctions as
people try to parse through exactly what
the data will be looking like in the
CPIs, the two CPIs that we get in the
one labor market report. Going forward,
a big question on the Fed and how much
they are going to cut. We were just
hearing from Goldman Sachs that you have
to start thinking about a scenario where
the Fed could cut by 50 basis points
come next month. And Rick Reer was
saying that Friday after the jobs
report, 50 basis point cut could be on
the table come September. It really
depends on the data. What Simon was
talking about from Goldman Sachs though
is he wants to see a trajectory of the
unemployment rate ticking up 4.4%. But
there seems to be more people that are
siding with Governor Waller, Governor
Bowman when it comes to the Fed. Mary
Dailyaly, I was willing to wait another
cycle, but I can't wait forever. Right
now, markets are looking ahead to that
prospect. You're seeing further gains in
equity markets ahead of that AMD
earnings report. And as we do get a
significant beat and raise across the
board, we could see the Russell 2000
gaining 4/10en of a percent in the bond
space just creeping higher in terms of
yields after yesterday's huge rally, the
biggest one-day rally going back to uh
May. And that's what we saw on Friday as
well uh when we did see some data market
uh data from the labor market that did
look like it was a lot softer than
expected and a little bit of dollar
strength as we fade a little bit of the
past couple of days. Coming up, we've
got Brook May of Evans Wealth Man uh of
Evans May Wealth on a techdriven market,
Brian Gardner of Steifel on escalating
trade tensions with India and Amanda Lam
of Black Rockck on rising expectations
for rate cuts. We begin this hour with
stocks gaining following robust
corporate earnings. Brook May of Evans
Maywealth writing technology has resumed
market leadership. We saw AI hype
translating to earnings. Brooke joins us
now for more. Brooke, we did see a
pretty amazing proclamation coming out
of Palunteer yesterday and it fueled a
lot of those expectations for more of
the same. How much more can they deliver
versus some of the questions people have
about valuations that are getting pretty
lofty?
>> Good morning, Lisa. Yeah, we think that
it's all about earnings right now and
it's all about tech earnings. When you
look of the earnings that we that of the
companies that have reported
specifically the MAX 7 in the tech
space, 26% earnings growth
year-over-year compared to only 4%
earnings growth that we've seen in the
other 493 names. So, we've got more tech
companies ready to report. Um, we've got
Nvidia coming up here in a few weeks and
all eyes are on tech because that's the
leadership and we think that it'll
continue to lead the way. Meanwhile,
we've seen a number of different uh Wall
Street firms come out and say maybe
things are looking a little frothy. We
saw that from Michael Hartnet over at
Bank of America, Morgan Stanley,
Deutsche Bank, and Evercore, ISI
analysts all said they could see a
correction in the next few weeks and
months ahead. Typically a soft period in
the equity market and things have gotten
pretty heady. What's your take on that?
I mean, is that something that you're
expecting and kind of waiting for?
When you look last week prior to the
correction that we saw, the VIX was tra
VIX was only around 15. And that's
nearing complacency. And if you're
contrarian at all, that's a concern. You
know, this tends to be uh the time of
the year where the market peaks August.
Uh and we tend to see some choppiness in
the market starting in September.
Typically, it'll bottom in October and
then move higher through year end.
Knowing what we know today, that trend
wouldn't surprise us. However, what
we've seen in the last year is that the
market's moving more on headlines than
it is actually on data. Uh, and so we
don't know what headlines are going to
come out over the next few weeks. That
said, knowing what we know today, we
would expect to see some choppiness come
September, October.
>> When it comes to the earnings, what have
you learned in terms of especially the
remainder 493 outside of the MAG 7? What
have you learned in terms of the tariff
impact and how corporate corporations
are really just guiding through them?
I don't think anyone expected to see the
profit margins that we're seeing. Uh
they're above a 5-year high at 12.3% of
the companies that have reported this
far. And when we listen to earnings
calls, CEOs and CFOs are telling us that
they've been able to navigate higher
tariffs. They've been able to cost cut.
They've been able to improve their
supply chain, and they've been able to
pass uh pass on higher prices. So what
we're hoping is that the tariffs will be
absorbed along the way, some by
retailers, some by manufacturers, and
some by uh passing it on to the
consumer. And if you spread out that
pain, nobody really feels it, and it
doesn't become detrimental to one area
of the economy.
>> But of course, for the previous earnings
period, it was a 10% tariff on all these
trading partners. What do you think it
means now that a lot of these countries
are facing higher rates?
We think ultimately we're going to end
in a range of 10 to 15%. So if we've
learned one thing over the last few
months, there's a lot of saber rattling
and then ultimately things end up
settling at a lower level than what's
initially threatened or or proposed. So
we think that we will see some
volatility based on projected tariffs.
However, ultimately once there's more
clarity and things have settled, then we
think that we'll be in the 10 to 15%
range, which has an impact, but it isn't
necessarily going to be devastating to
the economy.
>> Brooke, how much are you paying
attention to the policy uncertainty
around the Bureau of Labor Statistics
and the firing of the head of that? Ray
Dallio came out with a post to ONX
saying that he actually would have fired
the head of the BLS too not for
political reasons but just because the
data collection and the whole process of
extrapolating uh some of the figures had
become outdated. What's your view of how
this is being cast and the potential
risk in markets?
>> Well, the markets don't like uncertainty
and the sooner there's clarity, the
better off we'll be. It is surprising
though in learning a little more about
how the the labor statistics are
calculated that so much of it is manual.
Um and so I wouldn't be surprised if
there is a better way to automate it um
and to to gather that information more
timely and with you know utilizing
electronics instead of you know manual
surveys. Um, but you know, to see a
revision down of 258,000
jobs for May and June is astonishing.
And granted, we've seen bigger and
bigger discrepancies between what's
initially reported and then the
revisions. Um, so we need to we need to
have those numbers tightened up and I
think the best way to do it is to rework
the system and come up with something
that's a lot more efficient.
>> Brook May of Evans Maywell, thank you so
much for being with us this morning.
Right now, we are seeing futures build
with that promise of AI. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yah and Yahara.
>> Hi Lisa. Switzerland's president and
economy minister are traveling to
Washington today to discuss tariffs. The
Swiss officials say they will present a
more attractive trade offer in an effort
to lower a 39% tariff imposed by the
Trump administration. Meanwhile,
Nvidia's main server assembly partner,
Hanghai, saw sales growth weaken in July
compared to the previous few months in a
sign that tariff uncertainty is weighing
on demand for electronics. Still,
despite the slow growth, it expects
third quarter sales to grow sequentially
and yearon-year.
And Blackstone employees who work at the
firm's Manhattan headquarters have begun
returning to the office one week after a
gunman killed four people in the
building. Employees were met by
increased security and police presence
along with executives and counselors
there to check in on staff. Blackstone
informed its workers returning was
optional and that it won't resume a
normal schedule until next week. That's
super brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Up next, enforcing
trade agreements.
>> All of the deals are premised and the
and the modified rates for these
countries are premised on them actually
opening their market. If you don't, you
can have the tariffs go back into place.
This is b this is basic trade
enforcement. And that's what we intend
to do here.
>> Brian Gardner of Steveall joining us on
basic trade enforcement. This is
bluebird surveillance.
[Music]
If you're wondering why equity markets
keep building on gains despite all of
the naysayers, just take a look at
earnings. Some of the statistics are
pretty shocking as we see futures
continue to rise with S&P 500 beating
expectations with a 9.1%
increase, triple the preseason forecast.
That according to Bloomberg
Intelligence. Meanwhile, the Russell
2000 gaining by a half a percent in
futures as people look to the potential
for a rate cut. When you take a look at
what that means in the bond space,
you've seen a real rapid rally in the
front end of the yield curve. Massive
decline over the past couple of trading
sessions. Today, taking a little bit of
a back up three basis points, 3.7%
10-year yield and 30-year yields. All of
them a little bit higher, coming before
a slate of $125 billion of bond auctions
this week. A lot of people trying to see
how that will be digested. There was a
Japanese bond auction overnight that
didn't go so well. Today we've got $58
billion of three-year notes sold at 100
p.m. You bleed this through the currency
space. What do you get? Marginally
nothing, but basically a little bit of
dollar strength, euro weakness, 115, but
fluctuating a real question about where
this pair will turn. Right now under
surveillance this morning, enforcing
trade agreements. All of the deals are
premised and the and the modified rates
for these countries are premised on them
actually opening their market, making
the investment and purchase commitments
they've agreed to. And if you don't, you
can have the tariffs go back into place.
This is b this is basic trade
enforcement. That's what we intend to do
here. This is once in a 100 years that
you have the chance to reorder global
trade like this. And we're doing it and
we'll use whatever tools are necessary
to do it.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
vowing to quote substantially raise
tariffs on India over the country's
Russian oil purchases. India's Ministry
of External Affairs calling the move
quote unjustified and unreasonable.
Bloomberg's Mike Shepard joins us now.
Mike, there's a real question around
what it looks like to have open markets.
How does Russian oil play a part in
that?
>> Well, Russian oil plays a different role
altogether in this, Lisa, because Donald
Trump is trying to use purchases of
Russian energy products as a means of
pressuring Vladimir Putin to end the war
in Ukraine. He is trying to cut off what
he sees and what European allies see as
a key source of financial support for
the war machine uh that has been going
on for more than three years there now
in Ukraine. And Donald Trump has tried
at tried at least at the beginning of
his administration to cajol Vladimir
Putin into coming to the bargaining
table and taking a more uh favorable
approach toward Russia and that has not
worked much to his frustration. Hence,
we're seeing a souring tone toward
Moscow uh here in Washington. And we are
also seeing the threats of secondary
sanctions as the president has called it
against Russian trading partners. And
that in particular right now includes
India which is a top purchaser of
Russian oil in particular. And they
would be facing significantly higher
tariffs on their goods being exported to
the US if they do not somehow cut those
purchases and cooperate with the US
effort to reign in Vladimir Putin here.
Now the issue for India is also beyond
just the question of Russian oil. They
are looking at an eyewatering tariff
level of 25% that would begin being
charged on Thursday after 12:01 a.m. New
York time here uh if they do not somehow
offer other trade concessions as well.
The president has been uh concerned that
India is still charging too much in
terms of tariffs on US products and also
uh maintaining barrier barriers on other
US products including agricultural goods
preventing them from uh easy entry into
India the one of the world's largest
markets and a key US trading partner.
And we're also seeing misgivings among
other nations that are facing high
tariff rates as they're about to be
charged uh later this week. Switzerland
is one of them. And we see the president
uh Karen Keller Suditor heading to
Washington with her economy minister in
a hope of trying to get some deal in
place before the 39% tariff against
Swiss goods goes into effect actually
goes into effect and begins being
charged. They were t they were caught
off guard last week, Lisa, during a call
with President Donald Trump. The Swiss
thought they had a deal in hand, but it
turned out the president was questioning
them about the tariff rate, that end
surplus that uh swi Switzerland enjoys
with the US. That trade imbalance was
the focus of the conversation with
President Donald Trump and he questioned
them uh in a way that really caught the
Swiss offguard. uh they didn't have a
good answer or a satisfactory answer for
President Donald Trump and they ended
the call without an agreement and hence
the 39% rate that uh was announced last
week much to the surprise of the Swiss
and now they're trying to make a last
stitch effort to avoid it. It's unclear
whether the president will actually meet
with his Swiss counterpart when she
arrives here in Washington, what the
schedule will be and also what sorts of
concessions the Swiss government will
have for Washington and whether it will
include more favorable treatment of US
uh agricultural goods, whether there
will be other tariff concessions or
anything perhaps related to farmer which
is one of the biggest uh products and
exports uh from Switzerland into the US.
And then of course there is always the
question of investment. Donald Trump is
using a lot of this uh trade negotiation
with uh key US uh trading partners as a
way of uh com getting them to invest
more in the US. We saw that with Japan,
South Korea and of course the European
Union and he is trying to secure those
commitments as a way of reshaping global
trade in a way that favors American
manufacturing.
>> Chef, thank you so much uh for all of
that. And I am curious just how much of
a surprise Switzerland really is and
whether the president will meet with the
head of Switzerland. This feels like a
Hail Mary from burn. This is the
statement from the government's office
in Switzerland. Quote, "Facilitate
meetings with the US authorities at
short notice and hold talks. It doesn't
sound like they actually have any
meetings set up and they're coming here
what feels like in a hailmary attempt.
Remember these tariff rates, that 39%
goes into effect at 12:01 Thursday. So
they need to do something pretty quickly
and bold to get it back to the
negotiated text they had before this
phone call happened between Karen Keller
Sutter and the president that didn't go
well. Joining us now is Brian Gardner of
Stifel. And Brian, I'd love your
perspective on what the Swiss could
offer the United States that could get
President Trump's interest. Do we have a
sense of what the parameters are, the
tit for tat uh that these negotiations
have really borne out?
>> It's tough to say because it does feel
like the goal lines have moved a little
bit. Um you know that your reporting
earlier about how the Swiss were caught
off guard. It it sounds like, you know,
and maybe I'm misinterpreting this, but
it sounds like uh the US changed uh the
ask. Um and so that makes negotiations a
little bit tougher. I do think, you
know, the president is very focused has
been focused throughout his entire adult
life on trade deficits. So, anything
that mo that that the Swiss can do to
convince Trump that they're going to
shrink the trade deficit, I I think is a
winner. And then it gets to pharma. You
you mentioned pharmaceuticals. It's a
big export for uh for this from
Switzerland. Um it's a big political
issue here in the United States. Uh the
president's been running, you know,
since his first term, been talking about
lowering prescription drug prices. So,
you know, that has to play into it as
well.
>> But Switzerland is a top five foreign
direct investor into the United States.
Why?
>> This is always the conundrum.
>> Yeah. So, why are they not touting that
more and using that in trade
negotiations?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I, you know, I can't speak
to what their strategy is and what what
their internal um discussions are about
how they approach the United States and
and negotiations with the United States,
but I I that was a key part of the Japan
agreement was that uh the president got
to Trump, excuse me, sorry about that.
Uh got to tout um uh Japanese investment
in the United States. that that is a
model that the Swiss should be following
for for the reasons that they're not
doing it. I I can't speak to.
>> The new rates come into effect in less
than 48 hours. Who do you think gets a
deal before then?
>> You know, for all the talk about no
extensions. I think they're going to be
extensions. Um we've already seen pauses
and extensions. That doesn't mean there
can't be more. Um these are complex
negotiations. Um I I think that that the
administration leaned into no the no
extension narrative because it's a good
negotiating tactic, but the president is
always a dealmaker, right? And I think
at the end of the day, if he sees some
kind of movement um that's satisfactory
to him and the administration, they can
back off and and say, "Okay, we're
moving in the right direction. We need a
couple more weeks." Um but the the
holdouts so far, I think these are going
to be tougher to to get deals with. Um
you you're reporting on India before
Mike Shepard was spot on in talking
about the non-trade barriers. Those are
really the toughest barriers. Tariffs
are kind of easy um in in the whole
puzzle. They're the easier part of the
puzzle. It's the non-tariff barriers in
particular with India. You're dealing
with the agriculture sector which is
which is a a domestic force in any uh in
any nation in any uh economy and
especially in India. Um so I I I suspect
that the India negotiation's definitely
going to need more time and but it would
not um it would not surprise me to see a
series of extensions on on these talks.
>> Sometimes this feels like an episode of
the peanuts where people are talking
about tariffs and we hear about them
from Washington DC and all the market
hears is www because they're fa focused
on other things. are focused on tech
earnings and frankly even the BLS firing
as well as the uh Fed member resignation
seem to ignite much more interest than
the ongoing trade skirmishes. Do you
think that's appropriate? Do you think
that it's bigger story that we could get
a changing of the guard at the Federal
Reserve and that we will get a changing
of the guard at the Bureau of Labor
Statistics?
>> Well, first of all, any peanuts analogy
is always appropriate. I mean, it just
goes a long way. I mean, it's timeested.
Um Charles Schultz was was a genius. Uh
um so I yeah I I I think we you know we
could get some clarity um on the Fed and
the BLS in the in the next coming days.
There there are a lot of questions about
the Fed opening timing how they want to
structure this. Obviously you have the
PAL opening uh a year from now. The BLS
you know is a is a different story. Um
it has a more of a political feel to it.
Um, you know, you were you were talking
before about the Radalio uh tweet over
the weekend that he would have fired uh
the BLS commissioner. And I think there
is a argument to be made about um reform
of the of the BLS and the jobs survey in
general. Um but the problem is in
Republican circles especially um you
know it's been talked over the years of
manipulation that makes it very partisan
and political when the fact is anytime
there there are problems in in
government a lot of it can be uh
attributed to you know sorry to be blunt
about it but incompetence and um and
inefficiencies um and that there is a
need for uh improvement in the processes
especially at BLS um but it's gotten
caught up in in the the political
narrative of the day
>> and we may be hearing about who the next
potential appointee could be. Brian
Gardner of Stifel, thank you so much uh
for being with us. We are expecting to
hear both that as well as a potential
candidate for that open Fed position as
early as even today. Yeah, the president
said he was going to name the names this
week. What's interesting when it comes
to BLS, Wall Street Journal has a report
out today then saying in recent months
it's faced staff shortages bought on by
a hiring freeze from Trump in January.
Maybe this new commissioner could
actually convince the president, lift
the hiring freeze. Let's get more an
analytical thinkers in the BLS,
statistitians, and maybe we can get a
sharper read on the labor market, which
a lot of people in markets would
welcome. Watch this space. Coming up,
Tom Shapiro of GTIS partners on the
affordability problem in the housing
market and how to actually fix that.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
A big day of gains yesterday, building
on those this morning as people look
ahead to AMD earnings as well as all the
upward revisions and a potential rate
cut. We were hearing from Goldman Sachs
and potentially the Fed could cut even
50 basis points as soon as next month
should the economic data roll over. Our
Russell 2000 futures up about a half a
percent, two hours away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers with
Danny Ber. Danny,
>> hey Lisa. Some more earnings to get
through this morning. We heard from the
beer maker Molson Kors a cut to their
net sales. Two issues for them. One,
just in general, volumes have been
lower. Less people have been buying
their beer products. And two, because of
tariffs, aluminum cans are going to be
costing more for them. So it's an issue
for margins. So net sales they see is
dropping between 7 to 10% for the year.
Previously their estimate was 3 to 4%.
We also got earnings this morning from
Caterpillar often seen as a bell
weather. It was a niche when it comes to
their profit. Now the tariffs they are
taking a hit there up to $350 million in
the quarter. And the other issue for CAT
is they've had to lower prices. Their
margins were really hurt in the quarter.
So shares down 3%. Now to the upside
this morning we heard from Fizer. For
them it is an upgrade to their outlook.
Now, they say that's not thanks to CO
products because those have been waning
in popularity. So, they made up
elsewhere. They've been cutting costs.
They also say they've seen a positive
impact from a weaker dollar and they're
yet another company to cite the positive
impact of changes to tax policy. So,
those shares up 2%. Lisa, thank you so
much, Danny. On our radar this morning,
President Trump saying he would be quote
substantially raising the tariff on
Indian exports to the United States,
citing India's purchases of Russian oil.
New Delhi slamming the move as
unjustified and a real question around
what they could do other than really
shifting some of their global alliances.
Well, what's interesting here is I do
think the administration is looking at
India and they are trying to kill two
birds, one stone. One, we want to make
sure that they get to some sort of trade
agreement. So, we're going to put some
pressure on India when it comes to their
imports of Russian oil, which by the
way, then they're refined and they sell
back to the rest of the world and have
been making a ton of money since
Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Two, they
are trying to end this war in Ukraine.
You have Steve Wickoff, the president
said, is going to be going to Russia
this week. He has this self-imposed
truce deadline for Vladimir Putin to
meet this Friday. And one thing that
continuously fuels Putin's ability to
fund this war is the continued exports
of things like crude to India, to China,
to Brazil. But it's much easier to put
pressure on your friends. If I were Tom
Keen right now, I would say let's rip up
the script because I've been looking at
the price of oil and it hasn't
materially increased on the heels of
this. Even though potentially this could
lead India to bid up prices in other
places and this comes in the heels of
Saudi Arabia increasing production
dramatically and OPEC plus doing the
same. I just wonder how much breathing
room that's giving President Trump to go
much more aggressively against Russia
trying to curtail some of their oil
exports.
>> A tremendous amount. But I think Saudi
Arabia is looking at the picture right
now and saying we're going to go after
market share. We're going to go after
the cheaters that we have seen over the
past couple of years when it comes to
them pulling back supply of the market.
At the same time, they're doing it at a
time where they're getting curring a ton
of favor with this White House. Yeah.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration
providing guidance ahead of its tariff
roll out, posting a notice saying
expanded reciprocal tariffs will not
apply to any products loaded onto a
vessel for transport into the US before
12:01 a.m. Eastern on Thursday. Got
that? So, this is why this is actually
interesting because the US Customs and
Border Protection actually put out a
notice. So, anytime Trump puts out a
truth, a letter saying that he wrote
this partner, the tariff rate is going
to be this, you actually need an
executive order and then the Customs and
Border Protection to put out the
guidelines of what those rates are going
to mean in actuality in terms of
collecting the tariffs at the border.
And now they did this, which is why this
feels very real. in less than 48 hours,
these rates are going to hit, which is
why it is going to be even more
challenging for the likes of India or
Switzerland to get a deal in time for
those rates to be lowered. So even if
they were to get a deal, potentially
there's going to be a week or two where
they have to deal with these higher
tariff rates. Do you have a sense of the
timing of how long it takes just to
update the systems, the custom systems
and the entire infrastructure to uh
process some of these tariff rates in
real time? Well, it takes at minimum a
week because we saw the president come
out with that executive order last week
and said this is going into in fact
August 7th and everyone said August 7th
is a new deadline maybe for certain
countries one or two but for everyone
else these rates are set and they're
going into effect in less than 48 hours.
Sticking with politics, Texas Governor
Greg Abbott ordering the arrest of
Democratic lawmakers who left the state
to block a controversial vote on a new
congressional map, saying in a
statement, quote, "Texas House Democrats
abandoned their duty to Texans just uh
really ramping up the pressure in that
political fight."
>> Absolutely. So, two things we should
know. One, they don't carry any criminal
charges and two, they can't be a for
enforced across party line um or state
lines. So basically, if you're hiding
out in Chicago or New York or
California, you're not going to get
arrested. There's a lot of noise
surrounding this because now you have
Governors Newsome, Hokll saying they're
going to do the same. The signal from
this is that there's going to be a
tremendous amount of politics regarding
all of this and of the 2026 midterm
elections and everyone is trying to do
whatever they can on the margins to
grasp another seat or two given how
tight we've seen the House seats and
those margins are. One thing that a lot
of people have been looking at are the
main issues that are going to be
discussed. And one of them has been the
affordability of housing. And turning to
the housing market, tight supply pushing
up home prices with the average 30-year
mortgage remaining above 6.7%. Tom
Shapiro of GTIS writing, "Affordab
affordability is the biggest issue near
the worst point since the 1980s, but
incomes should grow faster than home
prices over the next few years." Tom
joins us now. And before we get into the
nitty-gritty, I'm just curious with all
of the discussions right now about
housing affordability, why haven't there
been more builders coming out and
actually creating that supply in areas
that didn't see the boom in building
like the sunb belt?
>> Well, the the issue has been
affordability, which is right now people
are spending 40% of their income on
housing, which is just way too high.
Also, I think consumers very much have
been concerned about the things you're
talking about, about tariffs, about the
economic outlook, about their jobs. It
is the largest purchase that anybody
makes in the United States. So, they're
quite cautious before they make it. So,
we're actually seeing new home sales
down 13% right now. Um, existing home
sales are down 3%. And given you know
there on a positive side there hasn't
been a ton of supply uh because 72% of
mortgages are locked in under 5% and to
get a new mortgage you're close to 7%
today. So obviously the cost of just a
small move up is massive. So that's
really helped and why we haven't gotten
into a more GFC type situation right
now. But the issue right now is that is
affordability and it's something that
has to happen. So, a couple things can
obviously change that. Incomes can go
up, which hopefully we'll start to see.
Uh, prices can come down or mortgage
rates can come down. So, any of one of
those or all of those together will help
the affordability issue. But until that
happens, it's going to be a slow selling
season.
>> And Tom, we have seen prices come down,
particularly in certain regions that had
gotten really built up and seen really
uh a rapid price appreciation in the
direct aftermath of the pandemic. I'm
just wondering how much further it would
have to go to rightsize the
affordability question all else being
equal if we don't see a huge increase in
incomes and we don't see a huge decrease
in in mortgage rates.
>> Well, you'd have to see a very large
decrease because if you want to get back
to what real affordability should be, it
should be in the mid30s uh what people
should be spending of their income. So,
you're talking about a 10% decrease. So,
that is probably not going to happen.
And that's really because of the supply
picture that I painted with for you.
There were just isn't enough supply to
do that. People just aren't putting
their homes back on the market. And
that's really helped to prop up prop up
because you're not just not seeing the
existing homes. While the inventory is
up certainly from last year, it's just
not where it used to be. So I I don't
think we're going to see that happen. So
hopefully there'll be some combination
of all the factors that will help us get
back to a more normal selling season.
>> Given that it's been challenging for
individuals to get on the property
ladder in terms of buying a home, what
has that meant for the rental market?
>> Well, it's been quite good and so a lot
of people have been moving to renters.
And just to give you a number, if rates
dropped to 6%, we'd see 160,000 renters
move over to be to be buyers of homes.
Um, so the rental market in a lot of
areas, particularly the coasts, have
been really good. Um, we're seeing San
Francisco, uh, prices, uh, for rent are
up about 6.8%, New York's up about three
and a half%. Uh, it should be the same
in the in other markets like the Sunb
Belt, which have had good economic
drivers and good job growth. The issue
has been the supply. They were just
really overs supplied. If you take a
market like in Austin or Nashville or
Charlotte, those are some of the best
markets from a job growth perspective.
The issue is every developer got the
same memo and so everybody built. So
Austin, for example, was the best multif
family market in the country. It's now
the worst, although it's seen very
positive absorption. So hopefully that
will brightize itself, but it'll take a
year or two before that absorption
happens. So right now from an investment
perspective, we're much more focused on
the coasts than we are we are on the sun
belt.
>> There's been a lot of concern about what
tariffs would mean for the construction
industry, but at the same time you're
talking about a flush of money trying to
go into some of these markets. What has
that meant for the home building
industry and construction?
>> Well, that's a pretty interesting thing.
So, you would assume given the issue
with the labor market, uh, given the
immigration issue and given the tariff
issue, you'd assume costs would be going
through the roof. They actually have
been really moderate. Um, costs are
muted up maybe about 2%. Um, and that's
because there just isn't a lot of
building right now. So, the trades, the
people are, you know, who actually do
the framing and the electricians and the
plumbers, they're getting much more
aggressive when they're bidding
contracts. So if you're a electrician
and you need to win 10 contracts a year
and you're bidding 40 contracts, you're
going to bid them pretty wide for a very
high profit margin. But today, if you're
only going to get 15 that you bid on
because there's just not a lot of jobs
out there, you're going to bid a lot
more aggressively. We've seen not so
much in multif family because we're not
building multif family but for example
in our industrial portfolio we're
actually seeing tremendous cost
decreases throughout our portfolio 5 10
even 15% decreases because of this very
issue. So the whole concern about
tariffs and raw materials going up which
they have has not really flowed through
to the cost side. Tom, before we let you
go, you said you like the coasts in the
United States, and I have to bring up
some of the political proposals that
we've seen in places like New York City.
This idea of trying to cap the rents
that potentially could get passed along
and other uh other policies that are
considered builder unfriendly. How much
does that or will that shape your view
of how attractive of an investment that
region is?
>> Yeah, very much so. I mean the issue of
course is that if you cap rents your
expenses aren't capped. So if
municipality or city says you can't
raise the rents they are still going to
raise your property taxes. Your
utilities are still going to go up. Um
your insurance costs are going to still
go up. So it is something we look at a
lot. Those of course are on the
stabilized unit. So not all properties
have a lot of rent stabilized. So we're
definitely focused on that. You look in
San Francisco, all smaller buildings
have a cap of 60% of C CPI until the
tenant moves out. So, it's something you
have to look at because if you have
tenants that are going to stay in place
and your costs are going to go up and
you can only raise your rents by 60% of
CPI, that's a huge issue. So, it is
something we very much look at. But, of
course, it's not across the board. It's
really on the stabilized units. So, you
have to be careful about what percent of
stabilized units. The last time this
happened in in New York um when they
capped uh and and actually stopped
allowing rent increases for stabilized
units, it was a complete disaster. So
many properties went into foreclosure.
It's a really terrible thing. Of course,
you know, politically it sounds great.
We're going to stop those bad landlords
from raising rents, but the issue is is
then there's no capital that will go
into these buildings. And then what
happens is you end up with a lot of
units that actually just sit and people
don't rent them out because it's just
not worth it. So, it is a really bad
policy. Um, and so, of course,
affordable housing is a huge issue and
something that we absolutely have to
address. We just have to find a better
way to address it than just to cap or
stop rent increases.
>> Tom Shapiro of GTI Partners, thank you
so much for being with us. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomer Brief with Yhierra Anna. Jihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. The White House is preparing
to ramp up pressure against big banks
over perceived discrimination against
conservatives and crypto companies.
That's according to the Wall Street
Journal, which reports the order would
direct bank regulators to investigate
financial institutions and find lenders
that drop customers for political
reasons. Meanwhile, the State Department
will require bonds up to $15,000
for some tourists and business visas
under a 12month pilot program. The bonds
are targeting countries with high
overstay rates or weak applicant
screenings. There won't be an option to
apply for waiverss, but officers may
wave bonds for urgent humanitarian needs
or other limited circumstances. And
after surging 23% yesterday, American
Eagle shares are rising again today
after President Trump said the company's
Sydney Sweeney ad is the quote hottest
out there and that its jeans are flying
off the shelves. It's not clear yet
whether the ad, which controversially
celebrates Sweeny's genetic traits and
her jeans, is actually convincing
shoppers to buy American Eagle clothes.
That's your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. You might not be
convincing people to uh buy jeans, but
it is definitely convincing people to
buy the stock, which raises a question,
isn't basically any news, any uh
publicity, good publicity?
>> Yeah. And now they're being they're
being talked about every single day,
even by the president of United States
from the Oval Office. I don't know when
was the last time you actually heard
anyone talk about American Eagle.
>> Yeah, and that's true actually even with
teenagers at home and we are seeing meme
stocks reverse. So this really
reigniting some of the interest around
those specific names. Up next, FUD rate
Fed rate cuts in focus.
>> I think the Fed probably will be behind
the curve because the tariffs created so
much uncertainty about what's going to
dominate. Like I think the prospects are
pretty good that the Fed's going to cut
rates later this year.
>> Amanda Lightam of Black Rockck joining
us next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Building on yesterday gains as people
take a look at earnings and ignore the
noise. That is what we see in the tariff
space. What we are seeing is gains of
about a quarter a percent on the S&P
500. a little bit of dollar strength
just kind of meandering around that 115
mark on the Euro dollar cross and yields
marginally higher two basis point
increase on the 10-year and pretty much
across the curve 4.22% 22%
focused on the bond market under
surveillance this morning. Fed rate cuts
very much in focus.
>> I think the Fed probably will be behind
the curve because the tariffs create so
much uncertainty about what's going to
dominate, the risk of inflation or the
risk of growth. I'm worried that we're
going to be in a sort of a
stagflationary environment where we're
going to have both higher prices and a
weaker economy. I think the prospects
are pretty good that the Fed's going to
cut rates later this year. Whether it
turns out to be September or not really
is going to turn out to depend on the
data.
>> Here's the latest. San Francisco Fed
President Mary Daly says the Fed may cut
rates more than twice this year if the
labor market continues to show signs of
weakening saying quote I was willing to
wait another cycle but I can't wait
forever. Amanda Lam of Black Rockck
joins us now. Amanda wonderful to see
you. Thank you for being here. How much
are we looking at the Fed rescuing
markets from weakness before the
weakness happens?
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me. I
think that's exactly the point. The
reason for the rate cuts in my view is
more important than the timing. So our
expectation is that the rate cut is most
likely in the fourth quarter. Yes, the
risks are skewed till September. But why
are they cutting? Are they cutting
because the growth backdrop is
deteriorating or are they cutting
because inflation is cooperating? It's
looking more and more like they would be
cutting because the growth backdrop is
deteriorating. I'm not sure that's a
great outcome for risk assets. It does
feel like the market is preempting this
a bit. In our world of corporate credit,
spreads are still resilient. There's
some differentiation under the surface.
Um, but I actually think the market is
looking through this a bit. And the
reason I say that is you've had folks
like Beth Hammock last week talking
about how we're not that far from
neutral. So, leaving aside the timing of
the cutting, um, and if we focus on the
reason and actually the scope for the
depth of the rate cutting cycle, I'm not
sure that there's that much relief in
train absent a sharp downturn in growth.
Why did people shrug off the labor
market report on Friday and the
revisions that were incredibly negative
and caused the firing of the BLS chief?
>> What I think it is is that Chair Pal
almost went out of his way in the press
conference to talk about how he's
emphasizing the unemployment rate over
the number of payrolls gained in any
month because as he noted the break even
rate of payrolls growth is slowing
because immigration is coming down. So
if you look at we were at 4.1% as of the
July FOMC we're now 4.2 edging up on
4.3. Chair Pal characterized that 4.1 as
being close to maximum employment. So
yes the revisions were very large not
unprecedented but large. Uh but actually
if you look at the unemployment rate uh
with inflation still above target I
still think there's actually some
tension in that dual mandate. And so
it's it's not for me um a a a base case
or or very clearcut u that they will cut
in September because I think if you look
back to the July FOMC chair Pow made a
point to emphasize that unemployment
rate and I think that's part of that
undercurrent when the market had a bit
of time to digest it um focusing on that
I think you you could come up with a
different path but I I think to be clear
the direction of travel is very clear
rates are coming down it's almost a moot
point. Is it September or October? Not
sure it quite matters. Well, the
market's pricing a 90% chance of now of
September. What would it take you to say
it is September?
>> I think if you if you started to see
some cooperation in inflation, I think
that could get you there that actually
the that tension on that price stability
side of the mandate could ease up a bit
and then of course we do have some more
data between now and then. So, if you
start to see some real um continued
weakening in the labor market, we've
already seen weakening, but if that is
persistent, um I think that could that
could really push them. There's a lot of
politics surrounding right now the data
and the Fed and the president is going
to have a chance to now he's going to
put a new name in for the BLS
commissioner which he fired and Adriana
Cougler the Fed governor is supposed to
step down in January. She resigned
early. Are you concerned that all this
is getting politicized and there's no
independent credibility? Our
conversations with investors are very
much focused on the fundamentals. So I
think there is a lot of noise in the
background but actually top of mind in
our conversation is how are companies
navigating this and what are the levers
that companies can pull going forward if
the growth inflation mix becomes more
challenging as we expect. What I find
striking is that second quarter earnings
have given us some data points that
companies in some instances are lowering
their estimated impact of tariffs
relative to what they communicated in
the first quarter. Certainly not every
company. There's a lot of dispersion. Uh
but if you look at the myriad of
operational levers that are available to
companies to navigate this, that could
include things like changing product
mix, accelerating cost cutting in other
areas. Um there's actually a fair amount
of levers. It kind of reminds me of 2022
when there was a swift rate hiking
cycle, there were imminent expectations
for a recession, it didn't materialize.
I'm wondering if the several quarters of
above trend growth from 2023 and 2024
actually built up some cushions in the
corporate sector and there's resilience
there. There's also the one big
beautiful bill and we haven't talked
about it as much as maybe we should have
in terms of the ramification for
companies, but the Wall Street Journal
put out a story just highlighting the
free cash flow and how much it's
increased on the heels of this
particular piece of legislation. How
much is that buffering a lot of
companies in ways that might have been
underestimated going into this?
>> It's a great point. you noted a company
earlier this morning that I think raised
their guidance on beha on related to
that. We also saw earlier in this
earning season, a telecom company do the
same. So, I think it's a great point.
The two-sided risks are very real. It's
not just about the downside risks to
growth and the tariffs, but it's also
about the deregulation. Actually, M&A,
strategic North American M&A is running
at the highest pace since 2021 year to
date, which and we know 2021 was a
banner year for strategic dealm. So I I
can't help but think that under the
surface and to the noise point you
mentioned Anie um there is a fair amount
of corporate confidence that is coming
through and I think that is why we are
very mindful of two-sided risks
>> at the same time it's priced in right
and you're looking at various tight
spreads uh this is all kind of priced to
perfection a number of people have
mentioned where do you still see value
given that yes there is a lot of
positivity but it's also something a lot
of people have recognized
>> right I I would say if I had to pick one
area it would be selectively moving down
in credit quality within corporate
credit. So if an investor is confined to
IG, we like that tripleB pocket of the
cohort. If there's a more flexible
mandate, we like moving into the high
end of high yield. You make a great
point. There's not a lot of scope for
absolute spread tightening at current
levels. Episodes of widening are
short-lived. The the dips get bought, so
to speak. But uh similarly, I think the
bar for a sustained selloff and widening
in credit spreads is actually quite
high. And of course, as you know, the
yield-based demand is a very real
technical. So we're pretty constructive
on corporate credit risk. That said, not
everything is participating. Triple C's
are still lagging. I think that's
appropriate. I think that reflects
discipline in the market.
>> Yeah, maybe actually a market and not
necessarily something that's bad that's
propped up by a particular policy.
Amanda Linham of Black Rockck, thank you
so much for being with us as we do plow
forward for ISM services at 10:00 a.m.
the trade balance before that. Then
later this morning or later today, we do
get bond auctions at a time where
there's a real question of how this
government is going to finance itself.
And that's going to be an increasing
conversation going forward with the
revenues coming in from tariffs, but
also with the Treasury Department
playing around with a couple of
different options.
>> I remember the president of United
States talking about it, saying that we
should be financing with lower rates
because of how much they are paying to
pay off their debt. Remember, the net
interest of paying off what we borrow is
now the biggest line item on the US
budget, bigger than the defense budget.
>> Yeah. Unfortunately, a lot of people
would point out it doesn't tend to work
like that. that a country that is
borrowing more gets to pay a lower rate.
Coming up, Eric Johnston of Caner
Fitzgerald, Dan Ies of Wedbush after
yesterday's Palunteer blowout earnings,
Data Peterson of the Conference Board,
and Flexport CEO Ryan Peterson. That's
the next
[Music]
Our
markets are the envy of the world.
>> You do need tech to keep delivering.
Luckily for us, they have been
delivering.
>> You've got, I think, a little bit of
froth showing up.
>> Meme stocks are back. Cryptos rallying.
That's what I'm worried about.
>> There's going to be continued
volatility. Use it as an opportunity to
buy the dip.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. The third hour heading
into another day of tech dominance after
Palanteer's earnings and talk of
astonishing AI impact. Getting some
trade data and bond auctions as
investors wonder how far this rally can
run. A real focus now on some sort of
dip that buyers are hoping to come into
but hasn't yet materialized. Exactly.
And a lot of them like Morgan Stanley is
basically saying when you see the dip
that is a time to buy. And they're
thinking that really the market just
bowed out April 2nd and we're not going
to see those lows ever again. And right
now we are just shy from a record high
which the president was leaning into
last night. Obviously liking what he saw
in terms of the rebound after that
really weak labor market report. So weak
that he fired the BLS commissioner. And
that is something we are still waiting
on today uh and this week. It's not the
data I'm really looking out for. Who was
he going to put in the chair for the BLS
commissioner? and also who is he going
to put in the chair for Adriana Cougler
who's resigning sooner than expected.
What's fascinating to me is you have all
these headlines that are incredibly
dramatic. The idea of a nearly
unprecedented firing of the BLS chief.
You also have a potential new seat on
the Federal Reserve that will get
filled. All of these things that could
be very market moving, not to mention
what we see on the trade side. But it's
a teflon market. We saw Nvidia, Meta,
Microsoft reach new highs. We saw more
than 80% of the S&P 500 end the day in
the green yesterday with the biggest
one-day rally going back to May. Is the
Teflon market justified by Teflon
earnings? And that's something that a
lot of investors seem to be uh kind of
battling out and I think it really
depends on what part of the market
you're looking at. as Jack Caffrey was
talking about, there's seven, then
there's 493 companies and the seven that
are spending on AI that are going out of
their way and are doing so and saying we
can do this and have this kind of
revenue growth with less people. But how
long can that last? Yeah, right now
we're seeing in markets continuing to
build on gains as people look ahead to
trade data that we get out in about 28
minutes time as well as ISM services. Do
not miss that. up about a quarter of a
percent futures for the S&P 500. A
little bit of dollar strength 115 on the
Euro dollar cross and 10-year yields up
about three basis points. That's sort of
where we are around for the the entirety
of the curve. 4.22%
after the rally that we saw at the end
of last week. Coming up this hour, Eric
Johnston of Caner Fitzgerald as stocks
extend their rebound. Dan Ies of Wed
Bush as Palanteer's blowout quarter
pushes shares toward record highs. They
are up more than 500% over the past 12
months and data Peterson of the
conference board on the state of the US
consumer. We begin this hour with stocks
higher on the heels of strong earnings
and rate cut bets. Eric Johnston of
cancer Fitzgerald writing this. We
continue to believe that equities will
experience a shallow short-term reset.
However, our 6 to 12month outlook
remains bullish. Eric joins us now.
Eric, you are one of those who does see
some sort of pullback. We have seen this
from Morgan Stanley. We have seen this
from Bank of America. We have seen this
from Evercore ISI. Waiting for the dip
to buy. How much can we see a dip if
everyone's expecting it and waiting to
swoop in? That's a great point. I mean,
I I don't think the dip is going to be
that significant, but we do have, you
know, significant um headwinds in the
form of tariff revenue over the course
of the next few months. We saw some of
the impact um that uh on Friday in terms
of the payroll report, but the bottom
line is the tariff rate likely going to
be in the 17 to 8 18% area. That's
likely going to be somewhere around 6 or
700 billion a year of tariff revenue.
And so over the course of the next few
months, you're likely going to see uh
the inflation rates start to tick higher
and you're likely going to see some very
subdued economic growth. And you've also
have a a market that has it's had a big
run, right? We've had overbought
conditions and there's been this flurry
of buying in lower quality, high short
interest uh names which essentially uh
you know has kind of given some
exuberance uh to the market which could
uh result in a little bit of a pullback.
We also have seasonal uh challenges but
again don't think the pullback is going
to be that significant and I think it
would be a a buying opportunity.
>> Well Eric this is really the conundrum
for so many investors just because there
are evidence of froth doesn't mean that
there's going to be some sort of crash
especially when there's fundamental
underpittings to it. Are there any signs
that you see uh where there isn't a
fundamental justification for the gains
uh currently being had?
So, I think the market is discounting
into 2026. I think that's really what's
um what's going on because the 2026
outlook I think is very very good and
you have and I can kind of go through a
few of those but I think the market is
saying look this hiccup that we're
seeing in the economy right GDP growth
was really about 1% in the first half
likely going to be somewhere around that
in the second half and it's mostly being
caused by the tariff revenue I just
mentioned um that that is really a
short-term factor we're seeing a small
slowdown in growth and it's going to
result in a Fed cut cycle that is going
to begin and we're going to see a lot of
tailwinds in 2026.
So whether the Fed begins cutting in
2025 or whether it takes till May of
2026 when we have a new Fed chair, um
this cycle is going to begin and we're
going to have this dynamic where the
Treasury is trying to get the entire
curve lower and also the Fed working in
concert to get the entire curve lower
because that's what the administration
wants. That's going to be a very
powerful force in the face of an economy
that we don't think goes into recession.
And at the same time that that's going
on, you have the other sort of economic
longer term growth tailwinds from the
data center buildout, from many of the
investments that have been announced
from overseas that are going on
domestically in terms of onshoring
and from some of the deregulation that
has been announced but takes time to
filter through uh filter through the
economy. So that backdrop is very
favorable. And I'll mention one other
thing which is that corporate earnings.
So AI so far really hasn't had that much
impact on the efficiency of nontech
corporate America and margins. And
that's coming. And whether that starts
in 2026, maybe the back half, you're
likely going to start to see that very
soon. And that should be a very positive
longer term backdrop for corporate
earnings. So I think the market is just
discounting what's going to be happening
starting in 2026.
>> Eric, in your note, you talk about the
fact that President Trump recognizes
this is him his market and his economy
now, which should result in promarket
policies and a deacto Trump put. At the
same time, many people are saying that
he's undermining the own credibility of
the United States with the continuous
job boning of Jay Powell, but also the
firing of the BLS commissioner. Do you
think that is undermining the potential
credibility of the next few labor market
prints?
>> What I would say is that I don't think
the market is focused on that. So, while
I I understand, you know, the questions
about Fed credibility, Fed independence,
and that this goes against the norms
that we've seen for a very long time.
and also of course around um you know
the labor chief and and and the
statistics and um the administration
getting involved in that. But I think
that's not what the market is going to
be ultimately focused on. And if the
result is that the Fed is a little bit
less independent,
but we have extremely accommodative
policy
that that is going to essentially
overwhelm any concerns around Fed
independence. Ultimately, markets like
cheap money
and they like when you have higher uh
nominal growth combined with lower
rates. And so, you know, the way that we
get there, while many people, you know,
may not like it and, um, it may not be
what has happened historically, um, the
benefit to asset prices, I think, is
going to overwhelm those other factors.
>> You also say the administration has
levers to counter economic or stock
market weak weakness. What else do they
have? They already have the one big
beautiful bill, the tariff story almost
behind them. They really want to see
interest rate cuts. What other levers
can they pull?
So there's things that the Treasury can
do around moving issuance to closer to
the front end of the curve. There's
things that a Fed chair can do around
implementing QE or yield curve control.
Not being talked about right now, but
that's something that that can be uh
that can be done. We have from a you
know tariff perspective, we have these
rates in place. Some of them are related
to fentanyl. Um things that can show
improvement. And so if we were to get
into a weaker market, could some tariff
rates be lowered? Uh that's that's
certainly possible. Could there be some
fiscal stimulus? There's a number of
things that can be done to uh counteract
any sort of economic weakness. I think
there's a lot of levers in place and
those include tariffs which um are now
at very elevated rate. Um you know you
look at a 20% tariff on China related to
fentanyl. Maybe that outlook on fentanyl
gets better and could be um you know
used as a reason to lower lower tariff
rates there. So a number of things.
>> Eric Johnston of Cancer Fitzgerald,
thank you so much for being with us this
morning. Right now let's get you an
update elsewhere uh this morning. Here
is your blue book brief with the
antihira. Hi, Lisa. Switzerland's
president and economy minister are
traveling to Washington today to discuss
tariffs, even as they have no formal
invite from the White House to meet with
President Trump. The Swiss officials
plan to present a more attractive trade
offer in an effort to lower a 39% tariff
imposed by the Trump administration.
Meanwhile, Texas Governor Greg Abbott
has ordered the arrest of Democratic
lawmakers who left the state to block a
vote on new congressional maps. Abbott
saying the lawmakers abandoned their
duty to Texans and that they could
potentially face forfeite of their
elected office. The tensions now have
governors of other states also looking
to redraw maps. And Celtics minority
owner Steve Pagluca has offered to
acquire the Connecticut Sun and move the
WNBA team to Boston in a deal that
values it at $325 million. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the
investment group led by Pagluca plans to
spend $100 million to build the team a
new practice facility. Quite the
sweetener. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yahara. Up next, the
morning calls, plus Dan Ies of Wetbush
on Palunteer's blowout quarter and the
500% gain in the shares over the past 12
months. That's next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
And as we've worked our way through
earning season, to some extent, your
biggest and best news has been less
about the earnings and more about the
capital spending boosts that So many of
these companies have been talking about
that remains sort of, if you will, the
trillion dollar question in the markets
of how this spending will ultimately
turn into higher margins, better growth
rates, um, and ultimately returns to
shareholders.
>> That was Jack Caffrey of JP Morgan. We
are getting some news on the next head
of the Federal Reserve. Uh, President
Trump speaking with media this morning
saying that Scott Besset, the current
Treasury Secretary, declined
consideration to be the Fed chair. Wants
to stay where he is. Samry, he wants to
say where he is. The Treasury Secretary
says this numerous times, including to
us. And he told us a few weeks ago that
he was part of the decision in terms of
the decision-making process, almost
taking him out of the running. Um, and
every time you talk to him, he says, "I
have the best job in Washington DC." The
president went on to say he doesn't love
Scott Bessant, though he wants to stay
where he is. So, uh, looks like
Bessant's not going to be the next Fed
chair.
>> Yeah. So one of the Kevin's or uh
someone else maybe right now in markets
you are seeing equities futures bleeding
higher on the heels of really earnings
and shrugging off some of the policy
concerns or uncertainty. People are sick
of hearing that saying that up 3ten of a
percent for S&P futures. You can see the
dollar just gaining slightly against the
euro 11540 and yields marginally higher
up two basis points on the 10-year.
Crude interestingly lower uh by 1.6% 6%
with the with the president saying also
that if the price goes low enough maybe
Vladimir Putin will stop the killing
time now for the morning calls with one
stock in focus Palanteer. First up,
Deutsche Bank upgrading the stock to
hold, citing the company's quote
excellence in artificial intelligence.
Those shares up 7.3% this morning. Next
up, Piper Sandler raising its price
target on Palanteer to $182, saying it
is a one-of-a-kind growth and margin
model. And finally, Bank of America
raising its price target on the company
to $180, saying it is the best in class
for AI. Let's stick with Palunteer as
its shares do surge after reporting a
48% increase in revenue for the second
quarter, citing the astonishing impact
of AI technology on its business. Mandep
Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence joins us
now. I am so glad that you are here,
Mandep. Can you explain to us aside from
the government contract model for
Palunteer where the growth is going to
be and what kind of astonishing
performance they've been seeing?
>> Look uh when it comes to Palunteer
clearly they are applying large language
models to applications. So what I mean
by that is if you have big data you can
actually call uh you know a chat GPT API
or an anthropic API and build a customer
service use case around it or a supply
chain use case and that gets reflected
in the US commercial business which they
expect to grow 85% of a low base but
very impressive growth. The thing that I
don't get is their market cap now is
equal to Salesforce and Adobe combined.
Think about it. Salesforce and Adobe
make up 60 billion in revenue annually.
Palanteer is a $4 billion annual run
rate company growing at 50% this year. I
don't think the growth rate will stay at
50% for the next eight quarters. So it
will taper. But how do you uh kind of
wrestle with the fact that you know the
valuation of these two big market cap
companies that generate 60 billion is
lower than a palunteer which is close to
400 billion. I I think that's the big
dislocation that earnings and free cash
flow can just I mean they cannot keep up
a after a while and to me that is where
there's a disconnect. They can win
government contracts. They have a lot of
referral business, but at some point the
numbers just get way ahead of themselves
and the valuation right now is so
stretched that there's no way they can
grow into the valuation.
>> But they did surpass $1 billion in
quarterly revenue. So what are they
going to do with all this cash?
>> Well, I mean, look, again, this is a
small company when you compare them to
enterprise software makers. That's why I
use Salesforce and Adobe as an example
because there are maybe 50 companies
with over $10 billion revenue run rate
in enterprise software. So there aren't
a lot. I mean it's one thing to get to 5
billion in revenue. It's a completely
different ballgame to get to 15 billion
in software revenue and that's where a
lot of the companies get acquired
because their growth slows. So to my
mind Palunteer was there even before the
AI wave happened. They did get a lift by
you know integrating large language
models but it's not as you know good of
a compounder as your cloud companies
are. That's where Service Now,
Salesforce, Adobe, they've compounded
over the years at 20% Kager. I just
don't I expect a lot of pull forward
here and that's where I'm I'm not buying
into the valuation and and that's where
you didn't even get a 10% lift. They did
a beat and raise by 10%. You didn't get
a 10% lift in stock price. There is I I
think some level of skepticism around
where they are trading in terms of
multiple.
>> Mandep Singh, I love the passion. Mandep
Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence and the
yin and the yang for the yang. Dan Ies
of Wedbush raising his price target and
Palanteer to $200 writing, we believe in
the next few years, Palunteer has the
potential to be a trillion dollar cap uh
dollar market cap as the AI revolution
takes hold. Dan, I'm sure you were
listening to what Mandep was saying
about how there is no way for the
valuation of Palunteer to be more than
the combined market caps of Salesforce
and Adobe. They can't grow into this
quickly enough. What is your
counterpoint?
>> Yeah, I wonder what Mandep's going to
say when it's a trillion dollar company
in the next two to three years. I mean,
look, my view is the reason it's the
messy of AI. they are owning the use
cases on the software side and I think
the street continues to underestimate
where this growth is going and I believe
over the coming years Palanteer it's
going to be on that Mount Rushmore of
tech and that's why investors are
recognizing it and we believe like I
think this is just the beginning of this
AI revolution and Palunteer is the gold
standard
>> Dan this has been a company deeply
associated with the defense department
deeply associated with the US government
and various contracts acts. How much are
they able to parlay that into the public
sector? How much does this remain very
much a company intertwined with the US
government?
>> Yeah, it's a great point. Look, I mean,
if you go back to their history, their
roots, it was government, but now it's
kind of the onetwo punch because they're
getting massive deals on the government
on the federal side because when it
comes to AI, who's the first call? It's
the car from Palanteer. Then on the
enterprise in the commercial, you're
basically starting a whole new business.
So that's why this is such unique
company and I understand what Mandep's
saying, but my whole view is look the
bears when they're sitting in the caves,
they can see AI in the spreadsheets and
I think that's how they've missed this
move and I think they're going to
continue to miss it on Palunteer.
>> Dan, when it comes to Palanteer though,
the company is deeply connected to
Republican politics. Does any of this
change if there's a changing of the
guard in Washington?
Yeah, look, I think that's something you
got to cross that bridge, you know, when
they come to I do think that the
technology
continues to stand above the rest. I
think because I can tell you all my time
in DC, the agencies, that's what they're
focused on. And look, that's why
Palunteer has been elevated to a special
status. You look at Oracle, you look at
Microsoft, who they partnering with,
Palanteer. And I I think what's
essentially happening here is it's
revolutionizing software. But when it
comes to AI revolution, we could talk
about all the hyperscalers and all the
growth that we saw over the last week or
two in earnings. The use cases, the
golden goose, it's Palunteer.
>> When it comes to where are they looking
outside of the US government, could you
see them doing more contract work for
other governments?
>> Well, yeah, especially Western
governments. I mean obviously Europe is
basically nowhere right I mean just
given the privacy and Karp's talked
about that but I think going forward as
more sovereigns start to head down this
path especially in the Middle East
Palunteer is going to play a huge role
and I think that's something you saw
even on Trump's trip of course you had
Jensen there but Karp's there because
when it comes to the use cases Palunteer
they're in look I can tell you 25 years
covering tech I mean that quarter last
night it it's a hall of famer right I
mean that's one you print that press
release out and you can hang that in the
Lou.
>> Dan, so you see Palanteer is a big
winner potentially joining the trillion
dollar club. We've seen another uh slew
of big winners when it comes to Meta,
Microsoft as well as uh others that we
have seen come out. Nvidia chief among
them. Who are the big losers in the tech
universe that we have seen so far or
that we may see in the upcoming weeks?
Look, I think some of the losers, I
mean, Cisco you could argue is maybe on
the wrong side. I mean, some of the
legacy players like Dell, look, for a
while, like AMD was in the wrong side,
but I think AMD is in the right side,
right? That's why they're part of the
the AI30. I think consulting firms, I
mean, you see what's happened to Entra
and others. Look, it it's a fork in the
road. And I think when it comes to what
we're seeing in tech, there's an elite
group of companies that's taken the
lead. And and look, and that's why
Salesforce has been a lagger. And I
think Salesforce is going to get there,
but it speaks to like you're either in
or you're out. And this AI party, we
talk about it was 900 PM, it's now 10
p.m. It goes to 4 a.m. And everyone
wants others to join the party. They
want Apple doing an acquisition, join
the party. Look at AMD. They're going to
get into and then that's how investors
are viewing it. And on the dance floor
is Karp, Jensen, Nadella.
>> Well, when it comes to AMD, they report
earnings after the bell. What are you
looking for? uh get the popcorn out. I
think Lisa Sue is just starting what I
believe is going to be just a massive
phase of growth when it comes to AI.
They're going to start in terms of the
innovations that we're seeing. They are
going to start to get a big piece of
this pie. And from a valuation
perspective, I mean, we think this could
be, you know, a stock well into the
twos.
>> All right, crack out your Red Bull, your
Celsius, Dan Ives, because we're going
to be dancing evidently till 4 a.m. Dan
Ives of Wed Bush, thank you so much for
being with us. Especially if that
Celsius is a high noon. Well, that's
going to be a different kind of party.
Look, I think a lot of people are
looking at how far can this run. And
this is so difficult to really
understand because people have
underestimated just how far some of
these artificial intelligence gains can
go. And every major company out there,
and I'm not talking about tech
companies, has an AI group devoted to
working on to on how you can integrate
artificial intelligence and large
language models into the everyday
workforce. This is coming. It is coming
and it is getting implemented. How high
is the bar for some of these companies?
You know, AMD is one of the best
performing stocks for in the
semiconductor sector in 2025. Now, does
this company have a target on its back
because of that? And at the same time,
the president speaking to the American
media today talking about how
semiconductor tariffs are coming down
the pipeline. That's a challenge. Yeah.
Coming up, we're going to get a sense of
the trade situation with trade balance
data. Data Peterson of the Conference
Board is here to react.
[Music]
Coming into Tuesday with futures
building on gains from yesterday.
Yesterday was the biggest one-day gain
going back to May. We also are getting
some headlines as President Trump speaks
particularly having to do with Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson who had been said
to be in the running for potentially
leading the Fed. Uh, President Trump
saying that he has asked not to be
included in that roster as he does like
where he is. He said, "I asked him last
night. Is that something you want?" Nope
was the answer he got from the Treasury
Secretary. I want to stay where I am.
And we basically heard that from the
Treasury Secretary a number of times. Of
course, he was very diplomatic saying,
"I have the best job in Washington DC,
but I serve at the pleasure of the
president and I'll do what he wants to
do." But at the same time, Treasury
Secret Treasury Secretary made it very
clear he was part of the decision-making
process, not actually in the process in
terms of the individuals the president
could pick from.
>> Yeah. So, not particularly surprising.
Also saying uh talking about a potential
meeting with Xihinping as well as going
after the banks and we will get into
that in one second. Right now, we are
getting some data, trade data uh coming
across the tape. Uh Bloomberg's Michael
McKe has the numbers. Mike,
>> well, the president's going to be happy
about this number a little bit. I guess
because it comes in lower than
anticipated and certainly down from last
month. These are June numbers for trade.
The trade balance is -60.2 billion. Uh
that's down from 71.7. Now we saw this
in the advanced numbers, but this is uh
the goods trades balance uh added in
with services and services usually we
have a surplus. the uh imports number is
down by almost 4% three negative 3.7%
and exports were down by half a percent.
So it's the story that we have been
seeing is the big pull forward into the
first quarter of trade and then uh
second quarter that has reversed and
that's one reason we got a stronger than
expected growth figure for the second
quarter. Now uh from here on we'll be
into the third quarter numbers and we'll
see what happens. We're seeing right now
uh not a huge response in markets on the
heels of that. Although as you said this
is what a number of people were looking
for and the expectation that as you
increase the barriers the volume of
trade does go down in the bond space not
a whole lot of reaction. S&P futures
retrace just a touch. Russell 2000 as
well up only 3/10en of a percent off the
session highs. As we look forward in the
bond space, actually getting a little
bit more of a bid at the long end, up
about one basis point, 4.8% in the
currency space, holding steady with just
a touch of dollar strength, euro
weakness as we look forward to
understand exactly the strength versus
the rate cuts. Mike, before you go, we
also are hearing about possibly
replacing the Fed chair. We've been
hearing a lot about this and saying that
maybe the seat for Audriana Cougler
could be used as a sort of backdoor into
the next Fed chair. What do we know
about that?
>> Well, the president has a choice to make
here. He can appoint someone to the
Cougler seat that he would anticipate
being the Fed chair. They would likely
be confirmed by the first of the year,
which would leave us in the situation of
having a so-called shadow Fed chair,
someone who uh the markets might listen
to more than the current Fed chair, Jay
Powell. Powell may not leave as a
governor at the end of his term as
chair. So, it is a gamble for the
president and his other option is to put
someone in there and then make a choice
uh if Powell doesn't leave between uh
somebody who's already on the Fed like
Mickey Bowman or Chris Waller and the
person he puts in there. But that would
be sort of like the apprentice show and
be a little awkward as well. Probably
your best bet is that we get someone who
will be the likely Fed chair and I would
imagine that whomever he names to the
Cougler seat will be seen that way on
Wall Street. And that person could be
one of two Kevins or a couple of other
people as we keep hearing. Joining us
now, thank you so much, Michael McKe.
Dana Peterson of the conference board is
is coming with us at a time when there
real questions about the integrity of
data and data collection. Before we get
into the state of the economy, I'd love
your take on how much more difficult
it's gotten to collect data and how much
we really got a focus put on that over
the past couple of days.
certainly is more challenging if you
have fewer responses, but I still think
we can trust the government data. It is
a benchmark. Many people look towards
that to be to understand what's going on
in the economy. And certainly when you
look at revisions, you're always going
to get revisions for certain measures
because you don't have all the
information
um right away. And economists markets
like advanced numbers, but if you get
advanced numbers, you have to anticipate
revisions. And indeed the revisions we
did see in the in the payrolls data were
mainly concentrated in one sector. It
was government and then after that was
leisure and hospitality which we know
has been under pressure for more than a
year.
>> Going forward, do you think we're going
to see a continued weakness almost a
trend when it comes to the type of
numbers we're getting from the non-farm
payrolls?
>> Well, yes. And that's something I've
been saying for a long time and it's
something Chair Powell has also been
saying. When you're at or near full
employment, you don't need giant
increases in payrolls month after month
because if you think of it as a a
bathtub, you filled up the bathtub. So
there's no more room for companies to
hire people. And indeed, that story is
still here. Um, last year many companies
were on the sidelines and this year they
had even more reasons to remain on the
sidelines in terms of hiring. Last year
I think it's because they had everyone
they needed. This year it's because of
uncertainty. Now some of those
uncertainties have lifted but there's
still, you know, much more to come in
terms of how consumers behave. But the
industries that have been hiring this
year, the same ones that hired last
year, those who are suffering from
severe labor shortages like like um
education, also healthcare. And the
industries that have been cutting
workers, you know, for the most part are
still the ones that were cutting workers
last year. That's tech and also
at finance. But we are seeing some
erosion in those industries that are
directly impacted by tariffs. If this is
a bathtub and there's no more room for
hiring, will the drain open? Is there
room for firing?
>> That's the big question. And certainly
over the course of the first half of the
year, many companies, even in our own
surveys, our CEO confidence survey, were
basically not doing anything. They were
just sitting there waiting to see what
the outcomes would be with regards to
fiscal policy and also trade policy.
And still, that's not really clear. And
so many companies are probably still
sitting on the sidelines. And I think
that's evident when you look at the
jolts data. You may see um hirings being
low, but there are very few firings and
also initial jobless claims remain near
historical lows.
>> At this point going forward, do you
think that the market is adequately
accounting for the potential weakness
that you see in the data that you see as
well as what we heard on Friday?
Well, again, I don't think the labor
market is falling off the cliff. When I
look at other elements of labor market
data, they're still pretty positive. Um,
the unemployment rate's very low. Yes,
some of that has reflects retirements
and also immigration policies, but you
still see very few industries letting
anybody go. And where you do see it on
the margins, again, it's in those
sectors that we know are directly
impacted by tariffs. Um, for example,
tariffs in immigration policy. Um, so
that's like construction, retail,
transportation, and warehousing. But
that's to be expected when you have a
10% tariff on all goods coming in. Um,
also when I look at wages and benefits,
while the pace has slowed, which makes
sense because you don't have that labor
shortages emergency anymore, wages and
benefits are still growing at a clip.
That is far more elevated than what we
saw between the great financial crisis
and the pandemic. So, I'm not convinced
that the labor market is falling in on
itself. Again, when you look at the
revisions, they were concentrated in in
mainly two areas. Um, but when I look at
other things like demand, retail sales,
consumption, that's definitely
weakening. The housing market is not
doing well because of a lack of
affordability and also businesses are in
stasis when it comes to investments and
some businesses will actually stop
investments um especially those that
lost certain types of tax credits.
>> Dana Peterson of the Conference Board,
thank you so much for being with us this
morning. Uh Dana was talking about how
wages uh are actually increasing and
that wage growth actually is more
significant than it was during the great
recession back in 2008 and the beginning
of the pandemic. This comes at a time
where people are trying to understand
the ramifications from immigration
especially given the fact that it's
unclear how many people have left how
many people are going to leave and what
the policy is going to be going forward.
And that is why it is so interesting
when the Jay Powell, the Fed chair,
talks about how he's looking at the
unemployment rate because of what is
happening right now in supply and
demand. You actually had the president
speaking this morning to the media
talking about how um they're going to
potentially come out and have different
rules when it comes to immigrant workers
in farming because this is a host of
their supply when it comes to this
industry.
>> Yeah. Said you can't replace immigrant
workers in farming easily. And this
comes with a number of constituents
complaining saying uh we're not able to
farm our fields based on the fear that
people have from showing up. Right now
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here's your
Bloomberg brief with Yahara anhara.
>> Hi Lisa. Top aids for Indian Prime
Minister Narendra Modi will travel to
Russia in the coming days. That's
according to officials familiar who tell
us here at Bloomberg that India's
national security adviser will visit
this week and its external affairs
minister will follow later this month.
Both trips were scheduled before
President Trump ramped up his tariff
threats against India over its ties to
Russia. Meanwhile, chipmaking giant TSMC
has fired several employees and launched
legal action over a suspected leak of
secrets related to its advanced chip
tech chip making techniques. The breach
was caught during an internal probe with
mass production of the nextg technology
set to begin this year. The tech will
ultimately be used to power a number of
devices from smartphones to AI
accelerators. And sticking with chips,
the US is exploring ways to equip
semiconductors with better location
tracking capabilities. A senior official
sharing Washington is working with the
industry to monitor the movements of
sensitive components as part of a
broader plan to curtail smuggling and
protect American tech dominance. That's
your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yah. Up next, setting
you up for the day ahead. Plus, Flexport
Chief Executive Officer Ryan Peterson on
how tariffs are hitting supply chains
and how some of the suppliers are
scrambling ahead of Thursday. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
the BLS is still the gold standard. Of
course, there's a smattering of of data
and um evidence that we look at
regardless of what phase of the cycle
that we're in. But when it comes to the
labor market, it is about the BLS
statistics. What was really important
about Friday's data point is that it
showed that some of the early signs of
cracks in the labor market actually did
make a trend with the revisions that we
saw. That was Lauren Goodwin of New York
Life uh pointing to what a number of
people said that actually this data
really did confirm what a lot of people
had been expecting. She also did say
that the Bureau of Labor Statistics
still is the gold standard for economic
data on the labor market. Right now,
when it comes to market activity about
45 minutes away from the market's open,
we do see JP Morgan shares erasing gains
and seeing some losses in pre-market
trading down about a quarter of a
percent after President Trump in
comments to media claimed that JP Morgan
discriminated against him. He has been
saying uh that that in general some of
the large banks discriminate against
conservatives and is actually
investigating that more thoroughly.
>> Right. And the White House according to
the Wall Street Journal is starting to
step up the pressure against some of
these big banks. And they have a draft
of this executive order which they
viewed to looking at bank regulators to
invest whether any financial
institutions might have violated the
Equal Credit Opportunity Act, antitrust
laws or consumer financial protection
laws. Now, we've heard from the banks a
number of times, whether or not it's
Jamie Diamond or Brian Moahan, saying
they constantly and consistently follow
the law when it comes to whether or not
if they have individuals on their
platform. Um, but the president is once
again going after them and we should get
this executive order this week at some
point. The Wall Street Journal uh had
that information and quoted Brian
Moyahan of Bank of America saying uh
that they welcome any investigation uh
but denying any particular uh type of
discrimination as do all of the banks.
Meanwhile, in broader markets, you do
see broad-based gains continuing for a
second straight day after yesterday's uh
biggest day going back to May, although
fading just a touch after uh the trade
data and after some of the headlines
that we've been seeing. S&P futures up
at not quite 2/10 of a percent. 10-year
yields higher by just about two basis
points. Counting down to the opening
bell. Here's the trading diary for the
week ahead. 9:45 a.m. PMI data followed
by ISM data shortly thereafter. That
comes at 10:00 a.m. 1 p.m. Eastern. The
Treasury auctioning 58 billion in
three-year notes after the closing bell.
AMD reporting earnings on Wednesday.
More Fed speak. And this is going to be
interesting from Mary Dailyaly of the
San Francisco Fed who made news this
morning as well as uh Cook and Collins,
Lisa Cook and Susan Collins. Plus,
Disney results Thursday, a rate decision
from the Bank of England and another
round of jobless claims. Uh plus
President Trump's new global tariffs
will take effect. What I find
interesting right now, Emory, is how
much we are or are not recognizing the
ramifications of tariffs that are
substantially higher where they have
been since 1930s, since the late 1930s.
>> Exact. Exactly. The average US tariff
rate was 2.4%. Now we're going to an
aggregate rate of some 20%. This is
going to be massive. And a lot of people
are saying companies still have not
digested it. You also have a number of
countries like India, like Switzerland
wanting to, I think as Ambassador Greer
would call it, manifest a deal in the
last minute. You even have the Swiss
president, which I am told uninvited by
this White House, no formal invitation
to come, getting on a plane to come to
Washington DC to try to ink a deal in
less than 48 hours.
>> Meanwhile, we do have the Trump
administration providing new guidance
ahead of the roll out. Bloomberg's Mike
Shepard joining us now. Mike, what are
we learning from the administration as
they prepare for these new rates to go
into effect on Thursday?
>> Yeah, the rates will begin to be
enforced, Lisa, on Thursday at after
12:01 a.m. That is anything that is put
on a boat or an airplane or in a truck
heading into the US would be subject to
these higher tariff rates. Now, that
still buys a little bit of time for
those handful of nations like
Switzerland, like India, and even like
Brazil that would like to see the rates
that they were handed by President
Donald Trump last week uh to be dropped
from where they are right now. The Swiss
in particular are smarting over the 39%
levy that the president imposed on
Thursday. This is uh really the fruit of
a falling out between him and his Swiss
counterpart Karen Keller Sudter who
didn't quite grasp Donald Trump's
misgivings over the trade deficit that
the US currently has with Switzerland
during an interview just now on the
other network. The president pointed to
that and pointed to his frustration with
that conversation and that really led to
that uh higher number. uh we've reported
ourselves just on some of the internal
workings of that conversation between
the two leaders. Now uh the Swiss
president is hoping to have another
encounter with the president or his team
to see if they can work out a different
deal with some concessions. Likewise,
we're looking for India to see if they
can come up with some sort of counter
offer before Thursday to lower the
tariff rate that they are currently
expecting of 25%. And again, uh,
President Donald Trump has expressed his
concern that India still maintains
tariff barriers that are too high and
also some non-tariff barriers on key
American goods, including in agriculture
and he would like to see those lowered
as well. But lurking the India
conversation is something else
altogether. Lisa, this is the Ukraine
war and the president wants to get India
to stop buying Russian crude. He sees
that as a way to support Vladimir
Putin's war machine. He has grown
frustrated with the Russian leaders
refusal to come to the bargaining table
to try to come agree to a ceasefire to
end this war and deliver a really a
campaign promise that Donald Trump had
been making consistently before the
election and of course uh repeatedly
afterward. And he has grown tired of
trying to cajul Vladimir Putin and would
rather use uh the economic instruments
at hand. And that would include getting
trading partners like India and like
China to stop buying energy products
from Russia. Likewise, we're also seeing
some pressure on Brazil for different
reasons altogether. And that is what has
led to the high tariff rate there. And
that is a 50% uh levy on Brazilian goods
coming into the US. And this is over his
President Donald Trump's concern that
his ally Jerro Bolsinaro is facing
unfair treatment over his uh the charges
he is facing for a role in a in an
alleged coup plot against the current
president Luis Sasio Lula D Silva. So
we'll have to be watching that all Lisa
and Amarie. It'll be a big day today and
a big rest of the week.
>> Chef, we also seem to get confirmation
of something that the Treasury Secretary
has pretty much signaled. He doesn't
want the job at the Fed. He likes where
he is.
>> Likes where he is.
>> Uh yes, he does. And the president made
very clear that he had four candidates.
He talked about the two Kevin uh Kevin
Worsh and Kevin Hasset as being
contenders. But he made clear that uh
Scott Bessant really wanted to stay in
his role as Treasury Secretary. He was
uh he was enjoying the job and he made
clear that look uh Scott Bessant's name
can come off the list. the one that we
have been maintaining here. Many other
media outlets have been maintaining and
looking to see who might see Jerome
succeed Jerome Powell as chair of the
Fed here.
>> Mike Shepard of Bloomberg, thank you so
much for being with us this morning.
President Donald Trump wrapping up
comments on trade, JP Morgan and picks
for the Fed and the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Bloomberg's Michael McKe
back with us. Mike, we uh knew a lot of
this heading into some of these comments
still. What are you hearing from people
about what the process looks like to
have a replacement to Adriana Cougler,
how long it would take, and what that
means for Fed Chair Jay Powell?
>> Well, the timing is difficult. Uh, the
president gets a chance to nominate
somebody early for the Cougler seat,
although he could have done it really
any time. The question is when can the
Senate get to it? They're out for the
month of August. They come back. They
have to deal with the budget first. So,
that could take up a lot of time. And if
we did get into a situation where they
were going to have a government
shutdown, that would put everything on
hold for a while. If he nominates
somebody who has not been confirmed
before by the Senate or somebody whose
confirmation, like Kevin Walsh, was a
long time ago, they're going to have to
fill out a lot of paperwork. That takes
time before it gets to uh the Senate
Banking Committee. Then they have to
hold a hearing and then it would go to
the floor. And we know the floor is kind
of backed up with a lot of judge and
other nominations that they have to vote
on. So it may not get the the president
a whole lot of time in advance uh of
when Cougler would leave unless you
you're looking at having a chairman in
waiting in which case um that person
would probably be in office by December
or January and would be able to counter
anything that Powell said and maybe
confuse the markets a bit. Mike, right
now the market is pricing in almost a
92% chance of a Fed rate cut next month.
And this comes after what we got in
Friday, which showed a much more rapidly
deteriorating labor picture based on the
revisions. How much do you think that
that really did single-handedly change
the view of a number of Fed members? We
did hear from Mary Daly of the San
Francisco Federal Reserve talking about
how one rate cut, maybe even two, could
be in order. Well, you remember when
Mary Daly talked with us a couple of
weeks ago, she said that she couldn't
wait forever. And that was her line last
night uh basically that uh she's at the
end of her patience. And I think that's
what you'll find with a number of people
on the Fed. They have been anticipating
that the data that they got between
their meeting and the next meeting on
September 17th would help them make up
their minds because they'd have more
employment data, more inflation data.
And I think that's what you're seeing
now is uh daily and we'll probably hear
it from others are going to say
something like if this is what we have
in September then yes uh we're ready to
cut rates. The big question is what does
inflation do? Right now it looks like
the labor market has some of the cracks
that Chris Waller was talking about. But
we did see inflation rise a little bit,
particularly the PCE, which is the Fed's
target uh index. And if that continues,
then it's a little bit harder for them
in September depending on how high and
how fast it rises.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much as
always. And this is one reason why
people are watching the tariffs go into
effect on Thursday and how much this
starts to have more significant
ramifications for pricing.
>> Does it actually bleed into companies
and there is it going to be more than
just a one-time price adjustment? Which
is what Mary Daly was talking about
though. She says if we do see that this
actually has an inflationary impact,
well then we can hike rates again. But
right now with the concern in the labor
market, she's thinking it's time. Yeah.
If the labor market isn't running hot,
then why would people have the
confidence to go out and accept higher
prices and on the margins you are seeing
signs of this with companies saying that
they don't have as much pricing power.
It remains to be seen and it remains to
be seen in particular industries uh how
much each are affected. Coming up
tomorrow, Steve Author Federated will be
joining us as well as Anastasia Amaroso
of Partners Group, Daryl Kron of Wells
Fargo, and Rich Greenfield of Lightshed
as we look at a potential another day of
gains on AI exuberance following
Palunteer's earnings and ahead of AMD.
This was Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]